(b)(6) 


pif 


pene ; : 

cal Survey of Forelen Lx erts Ne. York Da 
Mejor Dunccn Lee Febru: ry ‘1, 1945, 
erie Lt ight ; APPROVED FOR RELEASEN 


DATE: 07-Jun-2011 


Korecn Field Intelligence 


This «Lil serve to confirm Wondey!s conversetion during 
wntoh I geve you 5 brief outiine of results so fir obtiined from 
our verious interviews on the <bove subject. The:e o:inions *po:ly 
partLeulsrly to northwest Xores in which region tne verlous inter- 
viewees resided for many years. They msy be sum: rized as follows: 


1. A white man, regerdless of previous famili-rity with 
the country, would have wirtually no chenee of survival for any 
useful period of time if sent in under present conditions. 


£. A netive-born Koresn sith certsin jusiificstions, as 
anecified hereaftcr, would have s fair chance of keeping alive and 
being of sore use. 


People with whom this subject wss discussed were ts 
follows: 


| ong 
| Both these men «ere ettached to the Méryknoll 
athoile Mission in Morea «end Lived {tn the northwestern region 
for about, returning to this country on the Grijsholm 
in 1942, hed his om err in which he traveled 
frequently from his Chukochin Missic o He Shingishu ond 
other partes of northwest Korea. wes an architect 
and srent most of his time in the erection of riselon bmildings. 
In connection with this he opersted his orn sup;ly truck. 
ay ae 


wes for twenty yeors in 
Korea working under the euspices of the rrestyteriasn Bosrd of 
Foreign Sissivoms. He wes ststioned in koksi ind is generslly 
famtlisr with the surrounding country. He returned to the United 
St: tes in 1940. 


Ve 


ma was & Methodist missionery 

who returned to this country In 1941, efter e residence of 28 years 
in the Helfo srea of Korea. His purticuler job ws the esteblish- 
rent and sensgerent of prim-ry 4nd secondsry schools. In this 
connection he often traveled to otier carts of the country 
although his greatest familierity is of course with his own 
immedicte erea. 


63 


ans 


ven 


igs 6 tercnisng sexber of 
the # ryknoll Wisstion Soclety sn: for fifteen verrs wes strtho: ed 
at Youngyu, approximstely twenty alies from Heijo. She returned 
to this country on tho Gripsholm in 1lodi. 


Index slizs on all of the foregoing «re «stteched and will 
provide you with rore cetatled blogrs:hies. Here:fter in this 
memorandum reference to scecific opinions will he mice by index 
nunbera. 


subfect! 


en 48 &n * 
undertaking 


eit thet su 


would meet with almost Luvedi:te disazter. geve such an 
agent s better chanee of survivel but even he w. ecidedly doubt- 
ful, feeling thet it would be oniy « matter of time, and verhess a 
short tine, before the svent wos discovered by tie 5: panese. 


The srineLpal ressons for these ocinions ret 


1. The close survetilsnce over the local psopul: tion whieh 
is mtint.ined by the Jo panese-Xorest police. Tnte control is sone= 
whet stricter in nort:west Koree then in the centrsl en4 southern 
regiong es the -res is regerded ss more anti-Jepsnese then other 
sectizns. As sx: result the controls -re very strict snd of course 
inciude the Po Chia syster to which phgid edherence is insisted 
upon. This system, which consists of forming every comcunity into 
groups of ten femiifes or sultiples thereof with one mon ss leader 
in esch group, reculres thet the presence of an unregistered 
individual in a given house be re;orted to the :alice «lthin 8&4 
hours. This apolies to ny individuals, however close a relative 
or however transient a visitor, end the penslities for noncompli-e 
ence with the regulation «cre very severe. 


2. The belief th:t very few horesns could be trusted 
under existing conditions nit to cenounce an oecidentsl to the 
authorities. In the o:lnion of our interviewees this rould apply 
even though such 4 man hed been well ond fevorebly known to them 
for years prior to the wer. This is due to the long period of 
Jspenese dominstion enc their close police sucervision, whieh hes 
lowered the sorsle of the people to e& zolnt where tittle or no 
4 


relixnce could be placed u,on them to This 
orinion wis strongly held be subsects and 


\o 


EB age 3 Subjects 
were however #11 of the o:inion thet uncer certain oir- 
Cumsténces extied Soreans mizht be used as intelligence agents. 
Aside from the cuestion of basic relisbility, such men should 

not hive been sway from Kores too long, Le., not over seven or 
eignt years, end shvuid hewe close femiiy tier whieh they ocin- 
telned =s long #2 communicetion wes possible. In other words, 


os ; 
= s.= * tA 


their own fleld of operstions would heve to be confined to the 
, Manes -rea of their own town or willoge sx they would have to 
erend for protection and help upon the loyalty of reletives with 
‘whom the ties of blood would outweigh the very reul element of 
denger in concesling a nonregistered individusl. This would sean 
that such Korean sgents would be strictly limited in their own ’ 
personal movements while in the country, but it 1s thought thet they 
would be able to obtein walusble second-hznd informatim and 
esteblish sources of future intelligence, using close relatives for 
the purpose, 


Lal eBe 


CC: Mr. Bernard Knollenberg 


z+ 


