vey of Forodem pr erte - 0 fork 


Mejor Duncen C. bee A) Merch 19, 1945. 
Eric Ststght ‘ ty [APPROVED FOR RELEASEM 
Bc DATE: 07-Jun-2011 
Operstionel Dete - Xoree (a 4 
ERG 
ch “Dy, 


2) 


The following notes should be reed in conjunction with ay 
serornndum of even dste «ddressed to Commande of 
Document Security. This latter meanorsndus covers various points of 
specific interest to Sonmancer but these points also heve a 
direct bevring on the following goregrerchs. 


Subleet confirsed the opisioms of other interviewees to the 
effect that « white sgent would have iilttle chance of survival in 
Korea at the present time. we tight te able to hide away in some 
mountain retreat for « tine, slways »roviding he could find sone 
mesns of existence, but e «oul¢ certainly be completely hanstrung 
from an operative stendpoint. 


On the other hand, subject slso confirmed the iLdees of other 
interviewees thet certsin tyces of Koreris would have es chence of 
useful survival. When ssxed to define the most suitable tyre of 
Koreen, subtect specified es fallows: 


The most isport.nt cotnt {s to find « Korean who himself had 
a desire to do the job ind who couid -roduce a plan or schese of his 
own for the curpose. In other words, subject suggests thet the de- 
trails of the project should, fer ss possible, be azde to fit the 
capabilities of the idividuel rether then attempting to fit the 
individusl into a snecifie slen of obperstion. He ciekes this point 
beetuse the success or feilure of such en operstion must depend to a 
large extent on indivicunl circumstinces. The men aust hive deen in 
Kores recently enough not 19 heve lost his colioqguial pronunclation. 
There sre wery distinct regional differences in colioquiel speech 
ané the Koreen eh. h:s been in this country too long is sore than 
likely to hove lost ':.s loesl secent which would in itself meke hig 
subject to imsediste suspicion, 


Purthersore the min cust have close :--rsonal ties in Korese 
es his survive] will depend v,on the assistance of reletives and 
perhsns close friends. 


In -ddition, and perhans cost isportant of sll, subject te. 
of the osinion thet the Soresn “gent must be chosen with strict 
attention to the intensity of his enti-Jzpenese sentiments. Subject 
drews © ecnsidersble diestinetion bet-een the feelings of the Korean 
who has been in Americs for a number of yesrs ind his compatrict who 


, ®) 


2s 
hes personally vnd comperatively recentiy suffered ot EAS 


In hfe own vords "Tho American Korean fs bitter env: sgn but theoreticslly 
ond rrofesstonally, which is cifferent fron first-hand ex:eriLence.” 


In summingup “ne foregoing, sublect paiots out thet & combina~ 
tion of these qualiflestions will inevitably sesn tant the scope and 
extent of the sgent!s aper-tions sill be controlled thereby. In one 
ense Lt mey be vessible to a. ve them conprenensive, in snother 
efreumst-necs mty lisit them consider bly, hence his obgervstion thet 
the foh should he fitted to the mon ond not vice versa, 


Subject be no wenns exeluces ce poseibl.ity of using Koresane 

who heve been vwey Prom their pasta ree of six or seven 
tut he feels culte str i perts Show. 

nine the possibility of ; eine of 
Kore=n prisoners of wer. In his ochndo ace of these sen sight «ell 
rreve the best bets. They heve in «11 bebiiity suffered personally 
at the ends of the Japenese 3 they teve in any event been living 
clove ta the Japenese ind re lise with current records, controls, 
etc. Horeover they will be comoar: tively up to dete on the present 
wherethouts ond candition of their ft ily -nd frlenda and, br the seme 
token, will be sentimestally closer co the 1. tter than thoee Soresna 
who heve been Livirg in this country for : number of years. 


In this connection subject was questioned us to his feelings 
om the score of the reilability of such sen. He is of the opinion 
thet the chances ere slight thet mony of them have becone endoctrin: ted 
by the Japanese. On the controry he believes thet they ore much more 
Likely to de extresely bitter .nd, in eny event, feels thet proper 
euestioning would clarify these soints. 


Questioned rs to guecific ways ond ceens subject seld thet 
insemuch ss some foreknowledge of the assisisnee whieh an agent could 
anticioste would be essentiel, here «goin such forexnowledge ig ost 
likely to be found xfth the Korenn prisoner of wer end of Course the 
plan must lergely be besed on his cLoof the extent of such 
asetatence. dasuming thet the sgent is reasconebly convineed that 
anee he resches the vicinity of hia fendly ne exn count on sid, then 
eomes the guestion of the most ‘%txely wey to swold detection in 
rerehing the destred Loc ifty. 


ore 
Oye 


fecrl ferbor trevel 
econditions but slso ¢: . bet nev controls have 
been introduced ond the existine « roils tlintesed uo Unst eny 
extended initisl fourney sh-uld be regerded cs unmrise. If this 1s 
tecected “sf or nothe ogent cut eiiher be landed on the 
ecosst or ¢ropped coree¢hute, ond in beth ins tences +s close te 
eagxible to his ‘ome tom or villege. 


The xceosreny ing 


If the letter means sre used, ind subfect :#els they «re 
nrelersble due to the grester decsity of :orulrtion clong the coset, 


then the hicher slones of cs nesrby mountain cre sugeested. Korer ts 


/ 


very oomt: ug oom the ocds ore tint me such high «round exLlets 
not t: tthe fear toe sgentts hove territery. The uy er vilo;es sre 
einsidered sdyis:ble both bee use tney ore, «Lith fem exce;tions, 
unponul-ted snd beccuse the tendency «ould be for tre hlgner moun- 
tetra to be bare of trees. 


pile 


;resents of course an 
survive for a 


The sgent's identity « 

im. rtant oroblies. It Ls eerie ea 
time «tthout on official is # as oily «ne 
close friends do their rt, ‘not only nth loyeity but with tne 
necessary Ciscretion. However flis would not on.y be a treme:dous 
strsin on #11 concerned but Lt «ould herciy ¢ sceonrlish the cestred 

vose, The agent must hve - js of soverent end for this 
se subi ect uggests ume the Luentity of another 
menber af the farthy with ¢ uid be made to disappesr. 
Tt fs st this fnt the f photographic or fingerprint 
{dentifiestion rethods becomes cortent (slways provided of course 
thrt such sehhods have not been introduced since Pexrl Harbor... Subject 
regirds this =-s unlikely.) zrzed witn geefficiently up to dete snowledgt 
of swellable can'1ld: tes : his immedlute family, the agent could 
et once uron ert dbiigh Og ee a) sprongements for one of these 
relatives to diss.) ero could then agaume thet 
man's identity. gw vould heve to be gune culekly end the 
agentShould tavedl: y ,<rocead to the scene of ais operstions, which 
should be gocve distance renoved from his hone. town, With this 
accomplished however ant with both the agent and sls factiy sufflielent- 
ly posted, the former cuuid then fee the police at his ;oint of 
operations vith « clerr-cut and fecrsible story. An immediste check 
would be mece but incsmuch #s only eritten records sre used, such & 
cheek shonld tnvalve no cowrplic. ticns. 


ed 


Comusnist 


I vould 
edly f ver-ble i> : 
yo will gether, t panes 


ae 


nove oc decid- 
u; this interview which, os 
$e smn of shout 50 snd sbove 
eversge in trtelligence. I ‘yer tiv t he ks excellent Sorean 
ied gre.t a eg ee in the coumery. e 
at the Preshyterd: af Foreign airs 
expressed hls wiliing Oe am to. ecshington for a few dsys 
shouid you wish to te 3 on this or other c-ublects connected 
wtth Korea. I do not xrov how cell he «© fit irto « busy office as 
he ts hard of hearing and is, I think, sucevhot zelf consetous on the 
soint. Hovever on 8 consultstive basis or cerhscs <s A mun who could 
be used to interview selected foresns in their own langusge, you might 
find him of considerable use. I feel socerstely certrin thet he ts 
not rell off go thst I think vou mrt be prepered to my any expenses 
ircurred. 


Leiiebe 


Survey of Foreign Exverts - New York “SEGa ey 


Major Duncan C. Lee Merch £0, 1945. 


Eric Steright 


Dear Duncen, 


As discussed with you on Mondey, I now 
enclose the new Koreen matcrial. This consists of 
(a) an original an? three copies of © menorandum to 
you on the subject "Operstioncl Date on Korea” deted 
March 19th «nd (b) three copies of a menorundum to 
Commander H. S. dorgan on the subject "Srecified 
Information on Kores® d=ted March 19th. 


. Will vou be good enough to send two cozies 
each of (a) snd (b) to Msjor Frazee ror Colonel Eifler's 
attention. This is in aeccrord:nce with a standing agree- 
ment with which I know vou cre faniliar. 


In the next rew days vou wili also be 
receiving a special "S® report dezling with certain 
individuals now in Kores. 

Knowing thst vou .re in a considerzble 
hurry for t*is miterisl I neve let it go a first 
dictated end «ithout the ususl solish, but I think 
vou will find it sufficiently clezi. 


eee 


ff 


