‘ mig 2 
° % 
U.S. AND BRITISH OFFICLT 
TRAL INTELL] me Pr : 
CENTRAL INTELLIGED CE GROUP | 
ee REPORT , 
COUNTRY “ores parE: 25X1X6g 


SUBJECY Political Intsrmation: Gelmice of Plahiz ae nar 
Boate cu Telu Rives oe DIS. 14 February 1947 
PAGES 3 


25X1A6a : = 
en | | SUPPLEMENT 
orc Ei | 25X1X6a 


1, On 14 November 1946 a 62 ton boat with 120 tons of cargo, ve Long 
jing te the Internetional Transportation Company which is a former 
Japenese concern new under Chinese direction, was seized in the 
Went gukou area (X53 4-72 }, Wentzukou is approximately 15 

cLlometers southwest of Antung (12 24m 23 40-09) on the Yalu River, 
TL was enroute from Chefoo (121-24,37-32) to ‘aes The cargo 
consisted principally of noodles, matches, drisa@ piums, and parenios. 


* 


Do UAE November the boat of WU Date JUNE (KH? se m® ), a vessel of 
25 tons was seized by Russian and Korean séldiers in the “entgukou 
srana, The vessel was enroute to Antung and carried no carpfo. 


* - * a ‘ 7 ros $. i % 
3. On 22 November at 12 A.M. the beat of WANG Chtingekung (+ 7 2 Bs 
wa3 seized in the Wentgukou aren, WANG 1s a Pisnertian and was return 
ing home from Antung after seliiag nis fish, Personal property and 
R n cash 


supplies worth approximately 100,500 Yuan and 189, 500 OO Yuan in 


were comiseatede 


4, These threa boats ware stopped in the ntzukou area under similar 
Gene LANES Bech boat regerted tha et was first stopped and. 
gareahned by A “Koreans and 2 ussians., oa two cases the Koreans and 


whOSt: 


wg were oma smail island in the middle of the river 
sovercigacy ls open to question although claimed to be «2 Cnine se 
island by che 3ra Pacifieation Area Command. In the third case @ 
cmall steater was usad to stop the vessel. The Russians appeared 
tq be in command cf the searching party but after inspecting the 
poats thers ae Pas over to the Koreans woo then took them to 
Tungt 'aip" ing : RAF } which is directly across the river 


Prom ¢ Lean “ 


5, Actual conTiscaticn of the boats took place in the Tungt‘aipting 
‘Customs House. The agency in sa ey SF ee calicd the Bureau of Publ ie 
Winanee of Northern Korea( st ¥q & ), The Kore s ne tirs 
isked to see the boats! Licenses to Mt EB the oe River whi 
issued by Chinesa Communists, It Was s explained” is oe eee 


& Set vn aac LOU cont Z ee : 25X1A9a 
“25X1A9a 


ies) 


Oo 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP82-00457R000300550006-6 . 
| CONFID i. : 25X1A2g 
| DENG LTELLIGHNCS GROUP a. 


~~ 


had ne Communist license it would be eonfiseated as a retaliation 
egainst. the Nationalists who the Koreans alleged were eonfiseating 
Korean bosts, Treatment of the erew members varicd, Some were 
accused’ of heaing Kuomintang party members and threatened with punish . 
ment. Ail were eventually released after money and personal property 
had been confiscated, and they were allowed to return across the river 
in small boats, All identification papers were retained by the Koreans. 


On 25 November s military steam boat named the Fu~hua (ay # ), fully 
laden with gasoline and guarded by 7? soldiers, enroute from Chuangho 
(123=92,39-42) io Antung was stoppeé by Russian soldiers and taken 

to Dungmenkou (#& PY 58.) (cannot be located). According to he 
Chinsse the beat was sailing near the Korean shore but was o4 the 
Chinese side of the houndary. 


The Antung Garrison Command entered into direct negotiations with the 
Kussian Command in Sinuiju (12%27,40-08! dealing with a Colonet 
Kie~la-fu-fu (Chinese phoneticization of Russian name), “he boat, carge, 
and soldiers were returned on 2 December, 


‘he neoblem has been referred to the Central Government. Aeceur@ine to 
General LIAC Rucejui (Bl 2% 3, Chies of Steff of the Third 
Pacification Ares Commaia, the problem is complicated by the fact that 
the Russians ean disclaim responsibility for any of the seizures as the 
actual confiscations were carried out ky the Koreans, The present in- 
stability in Northern Korea and the lack of ahy Pesponsible authority 
further complicates the problem. Beyond referring the problem to the 
Central Government no cther Steps have been taken by the Third Pecifi« 
cation Area Command to secure the return of the boats to their OWNET Ss. 


fe the above mentioned seizures are not the only ones 
that have teken place on the Yalu River but are the ones which heve 
recentiy been brought to the attention of the Third Pacification Area 
command, There have been several cases of beats being fired wpor., 
The result has been the stopping of all navigation upon the river in- 
cluding the small fishing vessels with the exception of 6 small emount 


™ 


of traxfie, mostly shugsling, whieh is earried on at night. 


On toe night of 47 Nevember, Liu Chinetou (2) & 5 d, an official 
of the International Tvansportation Company, owner of one of the boats 
which was confiscated, crossed the river and went to sinuiju, directly 
acToss the river from Antung, He met with the Commander of the Feace 


Preservation Corps t 
him that his shin had been turned over to the Chinese Sommunist Covernme it 
formerly in Antung. Chue explained that nao Ship on the river sheuls 
varry argo te Antung and that this was the reason for eonrises tion, 


conden 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP82-00457R000300550006-6 


