CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GROUP 


CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM 
RELEASE IN FULL 


THE SITUATION IN KOREA | 


ORE 5/1 
3 January 1947 


236095 
35, a 


ORE 5/1 


3 January 1947 _ Copy No. _ § 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GROUP 


THE SITUATION IN KOREA 


SUMMARY 


\ 


Unity and independence are the dominant aspirations of the 
Korean people, while partition and joint occupation by the US and USSR 
are the governing factors in the political and economic life of the 
peninsula. The promises of independence made at Cairo, and confirmed 
at Yalta, have not been fulfilled. The division of Korea at the 38th 
parallel has become an almost impenetrable barrier between the US and 
Soviet Zones. The Moscow Decision, which provides for the unification 
and eventual independence of Korea, has not been implemented, largely 
because of disagreement between the US and USSR over the interpreta- 
tion of the document and the meaning of democracy. All efforts to 
reconvene the Joint Commission since its adjournment last May have 
failed. 


In the current deadlock, both the US and USSR are attempting 
to strengthen the political and economic organization of their own 
zones. The USSR has made more rapid progress toward regimentation in 
North Korea than the US has made toward democracy in its zone. An in- 
terim US policy for South Korea was not implemented until-after the 
adjournment of the Joint ‘Commission disclosed the fundamental dis- 
agreement over interpretation of the Moscow Decision. The sovietiza- 
tion of North Korea, on the other hand, began immediately after the 
occupation, and has proceeded without interruption since then. 


Soviet policy in Korea is directed toward the establishment 
of a friendly state which will:never serve as a base of attack upon 
the USSR. In order to attain this objective at a minimum cost to its- 
own scanty resources in the Far East, the USSR has attempted to make 
North Korea economically self-sufficient though politically subordi- 
nate. Soviets have given their zone a semblance of autonomy by en- 
trusting the administration to a hierarchy of "people's committees" 
dominated by the Korean Communists. The economy of North Korea has 
also been reconstructed on the principle of state control. Banking, 
heavy industry and communications have all been nationalized. The 
land has been redistributed, and private enterprise survives chiefly 
in agriculture and handicrafts. Membership is compulsory in a monop- 
olistic system of unions under strict political supervision. 


SECRET 


Although a socialistic program is favored by the large major- 
ity.of Koreans, the Soviet program does not appear to have won the sup- 
port of the people. In South Korea the choice between Opponents and 


In contrast to the Soviet discipline of North Korea, South 
Korea is in a state of unrest. The food shortage is the chief cause 
of unrest, but the well organized Communist opponents of the US occu- 
pation are endeavoring to give political direction to the current dis- 
orders, which Soviet propaganda represents as a protest against the 


operation of moderates in forming a coalition of parties and in estab~ 
lishing a provisional legislature in the US Zone. The majority is 
Prepared to support the US interim Program, which is now well advanced, 
The more radical Wing of the Communist Party, with the Support of So- 
viet propaganda, has therefore resorted to a campaign of terrorism 
against the occupation. A Korean army is being trained in the Soviet 
Zone, and may be expected to intervene, probably by mass infiltration, 
in case US forces should lose control of the situation in South Korea. 


sate, The immediate Soviet objective of establishing a firm Com- 
munist regime in North Korea is, therefore, close to realization. The 
long-range objective of the USSR is, however, to integrate the entire 

’ peninsula in the Soviet system of Far Eastern defenses. Since the US 
occupation of South Korea is the chief obstacle to this plan, Soviet 
propaganda and Communist agitation have consistently sought to drive 

’ the US out of Korea. At the present time, the USSR has deferred fur- 
ther diplomatic action pending the results of direct action by the 

: Communist Party in South Korea. 


A possibility remains, however, that the USSR will resort to 
compromise if radical methods fail, because certain long-term advan- 
tages are on the side of the US. Since most Koreans fervently oppose 
domination by the USSR or any other power, a stable democratic govern- 
ment in South Korea, which contains two-thirds of the population, would 
have the advantage over the Soviet-dominated regime in North Korea if. 
US and Soviet troops simultaneously withdrew. Therefore, if order can 
be maintained in South Korea and progress is made toward establishing 
@ provisional government, the USSR may decide to make concessions in 


foothold. 


- A more complete study of this Situation is enclosed herewith. 


ENCLOSURE 
THE SITUATION IN KOREA 


The Dominating Influence of Partition 
ee 


The partition of Korea into two zones dominates the political 
and economic life of the peninsula. The division of Korea at the 38th 
parallel has turned into a hard and fast boundary which cuts off all 
intercourse betwéen the northern and southern halves of the country, 
except for the exchange of mail and the transfer of surplus electric 
power from North to South Korea. 


Korean Aspirations and US-USSR Policies 


Unity and independence are the chief aspirations of the Ko- 
rean people. Korean nationalism is a deep-rooted movement which sur- 
vived forty years of Japanese repression and finally won international 
recognition at the Cairo Conference in December, 1943. The US, Great 
Britain, and China pledged themselves at that time to restore the inde- 
pendence of Korea. Soviet adherence to this declaration was subse- 
quently obtained at Yalta in February, 1945, and the policy was reaf- 
firmed at Potsdam in July of that year. The Conference of. Foreign Min- 
isters at Moscow in December, 1945, agreed to establish a provisional 
government for all Korea in order to prepare the Korean people for in- 
dependence and democracy. Since the occupation had divided the penin-~ 
sula into separate zones, the Moscow Decision also provided for a Joint 
Commission of the US and USSR to organize the provisioral government 
and consult with it in working out a broad program of democratic re- 
forms for a united Korea. This program in turn was to be submitted to 
the governments of the US, USSR, UK and China as the basis for a four- 
power trusteeship which would last "for a period of up to five years", 
All efforts to carry out the Moscow Decision have failed principally 
because of the conflict over trusteeship, and Korea remains bisected 
at tne 38th parallel. 


Since the adjournment of the Joint Commission in May of this 
year, the USSR has persistently refused to return its delegation to 
Seoul, except on terms unacceptable to the US. The Soviet Commander. 
in North Korea has made it clear that the USSR would not retreat from 
its contention that the opponents of trusteeship must be excluded from 
the provisional government of Korea. General Hodge is equally insis- 
tent on the Koreans' right of free speech and on a broad interpretation 
of the trusteeship clause of the Moscow Decision. There is consequently 
little prospect of reconvening the Joint Commission in the near future. 


Pending the unification of the peninsula, the US and the USSR 
are both attempting to strengthen the political and economic organiza- 
tion of their respective zones. The USSR began the sovietization of 
its zone immediately upon occupation, whereas, until the adjournment of 
the Joint Commission, US policy was based on the assumption that the 
Moscow Decision would soon be fulfilled. A separate interim program 
for South Korea was not implemented until after the breakdown of Joint 
Commission negotiations had revealed the antagonism of the US and Soviet 
conceptions of democracy, and the difficulty of finding a compromise be- 
tween them. The sovietization of North Korea therefore has progressed 
farther than has the democratization of the US Zone. 


Situation in North Korea 
ee ee eh ES 


Soviet Policy and Political Program. Soviet policy in Korea 
is directed toward the establishment of a friendly state which could 
never serve as a base of attack upon the USSR. Since the USSR intends 
to attain this objective at a minimum cost to its own scanty resources 
in the Far East, a corollary of Soviet policy is to combine political 
subordination with economic self-sufficiency. The most striking fea- 
ture of the Soviet regime in Korea as elsewhere is the stern repression 
of all opposition. Unlike the US Military Government in South Korea, 
the Soviet authorities in the North have not tried to be arbiters be- 
tween contending factions. Immediately after taking over control of 
the region from the Japanese, the Soviets set up a system of "interim 
people's committees" to liquidate the remnants of Japanese rule. Al- 
though these committees were selected by the Soviets, they are composed 
entirely of Koreans. These interim committees have now been replaced 
by permanent committees as a result of the elections of 3 November. 

The USSR has thus given the Koreans a semblance of autonomy and avoided 
the responsibilities of direct administration. The hierarchy of local 
and provincial people's committees culminates in a central committee, 
under the leadership of Kim Il Sawng, who has been publicized by the 
Soviets as a hero of the resistance to Japan and a leader of the people 
on the model of Stalin. This regime depends for pcpular support upon a 
Single-party system. After eliminating all opposition, the Soviets pro- 
ceeded to consolidate the parties favorable to their government ina 
monopolistic organization known as the North Korean Labor Party. The 
head of this Labor Party, Kim Doo Bong, constitutes together with Kim 
Il Sawng a sort of Korean duumvirate under the supervision of the USSR. 


Soviet Economic Measures. The economy of North Korea has also 
been reorganized on the principles of regimentation and indirect control. 
With approximately one-third of the total population of Korea and 35% of 
the total food production, the Soviet Zone is agriculturally self-sup- 
Porting. Korean mining, electric power, and heavy industry are, more- 
over, concentrated north of the 38th parallel. After inspecting 60% of 
the industrial areas of the Soviet Zone, Ambassador Pauley concluded 
that only minor items of equipment had been removed from North Korea. 


4, PHS SECRET 


It seems therefore that the USSR intends to Preserve the industria] 
potential and build up the economic self-sufficiency of its zone. 


Soviet propaganda stresses the €conomic progress of North 
Korea in contrast to the stagnant condition of the US Zone, and revo- 
lutionary changes have in fact taken place under Soviet rule. Korean 
and Japanese landowners have been liquidated as a class, and the tra- 
ditional system of land tenure, which the Japanese exploited, has been 
abolished. The Soviets boast that one million hectares (2,471,000 
.acres) of land have been distributed free of charge to the tenants. 
Banking, communications, and transportation, as well as heavy industry, 
are all controlled by the people's committees. In other words, all 
enterprises susceptible of immediate socialization have been taken 
over by the state. Private enterprise survives only among small pro- 
ducers, such as artisans and farmers. The Soviets also claim to have , 
instituted the eight-hour day for Korean workmen together with social 
insurance, and a guaranteed minimum wage. Child labor has been pro- 
hibited, and equal rights, both political and economic, have been 
given to women. ; 


Korean Reactions to the Soviet Program 
eee 


There is no doubt of the propaganda value of the Soviet pro- 
gram, especially in the US Zone.. Almost all Koreans are leftists by 
current US standards, and not even the conservative parties can be 
considered defenders of traditional Capitalism. The socialization 
of basic industries and the redistribution of land figure in the po- 
litical platforms of every party in South Korea. Soviet policies 
might therefore be expected to have great popular appeal in Korea. 
Despite a lack of evidence, there are indications, however, that the 
Soviet program has not won the support of the people. Communism and 
Soviet ascendancy are in fact the main issues between the parties of 
the left and the right in South Korea, where freedom of expression 
prevails in spite of occasional and temporary restrictions on the 
press. The leftist parties in South Korea are in general sympathetic, 
while the rightist parties are opposed to the Soviet regime. The Ko- 
reans of the US Zone have thus a clear choice between the opponents 
and the supporters of the USSR. . It is therefore significant that 
every election held in the US Zone has given the rightist parties. a 
large majority. These results can be explained only by a strong 
aversion to Soviet Communism among Koreans south of the 38th parallel. 
The popular decision, however, is not taken in full knowledge of con- 
ditions in the Soviet Zone, and may. be the product of prejudice rather 
than of judgment. 


The attitude of Koreans in the Soviet Zone is the only sure 
indication of the success of Soviet policy. But, aside from Soviet 
propaganda; almost no information is available on the state of public 
Opinion north of the boundary. Occasional rumors of resistance, such 


: ~ . Secrer 


and would gladly be rid of it. The alleged unpopularity of the Soviet 
regime, however, cannot be entirely ascribed to the misconduct of its 
troops. Excessive regimentation may also have produced a certain an- 
tagonism among the Koreans. . For example, the single-party system of 
politics is duplicated in the organization of labor. Union membership 
is compulsory in North Korea, and every union ig incorporated in the 
All Korea Labor Union under the direction of the Communist Party. Al- 
though the eight-hour day has been guaranteed by, law in the Soviet Zone, 
union members were recently required to contribute an extra hour of work 
each day to build up a fund for South Korean strikers. 


Discontent probably exists in North Korea, as in other areas 
of Soviet control. At present, however, the Soviet regime north of the 
58th parallel appears more firmly established than ever. The Moscow 
press has boasted that, in the elections of 3 November establishing 
permanent people's committees, 99.6% of the registered voters went to 
the polls in a great demonstration of loyalty to the existing govern- 
ment. In accordance with Soviet practice, the voters were not given 
the embarrassment of a choice, since all candidates figured on a Single 
Slate. The Soviets regard the results as a popular mandate to carry on 
their present system of government in North Korea. 


Situation in South Korea 
ore 


General. While Soviet discipline reigns north of the 38th 
parallel, South Korea is ina State of unrest. Factionalism and party 
Strife have recently culminated in a series of strikes and riots threat- 


tervention by US troops. The strike of railroad workers and printers 


at the end of September led to an outbreak of violence centering in the 


Southeastern provinces of Kyongsang Pukto and Kyongsang Namdo. Accord- 
ing to official estimates, approximately 40 policemen and 40 rioters 
were killed in street fighting in the Taegu and Pusan areas at the be- 
inning of October. Property losses totalled millions of yen, while 
arrests numbered 3,782. US troops were occasionally forced to fire 
into the mobs ‘during the course of these disturbances. Quiet was tem- 
porarily restored toward the middle of October, as the strikers gradu- 
ally returned to work. A recrudescence of unrest set in, however, to- 
ward the end of the month, while the scene shifted from the southeast 
to the southwest and to the area about Seoul. An uprising in the cap- 
ital, scheduled for 22 October, was prevented by timely action on the 
Part of the Military Government. The end of these. disorders is not yet 


a: -6- A 


eae 


in sight, and reports continue to come in of attempted assassination 
and sabotage. General Hodge has publicly accused the Communists of fo- 
menting insurrection against the Military Government in order to break 
up the unification of the right and the left and block the establish- 
ment of a provisional legislature in South Korea. Soviet propaganda 
implicitly agrees with this interpretation by ascribing the agitation 
to popular discontent with the "attempts of the American administration 
to manufacture: an ‘independent government' of southern Korea with reac- 
tionary elements." 


Economic Situation. The basic cause of the current disorders 
in South Korea is perhaps less political than economic. Like other oc- 
cupied areas, the US Zone in Korea suffers from scarcity and inflation. 
Communist leadership has only exploited the discontent aroused by want. 
The food situation in South Korea has been critical ever since last June 
when floods spoiled the summer grain crop. The free market in grain 
which the Military Government maintained last winter permitted a waste- 
ful distribution of existing reserves of rice. Food controls were put 
into effect last March, too late to prevent a shortage. Having once 
been allowed to profiteer on the black market, the farmers have resisted 
the forced collection of grain at fixed prices. Only 36% of the barley 
¢rop, which is the principal summer grain, had been collected by the gov- 
ernment at the beginning of September. The fall harvest of rice, which 
was expected to relieve the acute food shortage in South Korea, is also 
coming in very slowly. Less than 1% of the’collection quota was met in 
October as against an anticipated 5%, and collections were still well be- 
hind schedule on 15 December. 

The breakdown of transportation because of Strikes, floods, 
and wartime deterioration, has further complicated the distribution of 
available supplies in South Korea. Grain shipments from the US during 
August and September were 25% short of minimum requirements. Under these 
conditions the price of black market rice shas soared beyond the reach of 
the average consumer. As a palliative measure, the Military Government 
has tolerated a limited free movement of rice, in spite of previous an- 
nouncements that controls would be rigidly enforced. While complaining 
of inflation, the Korean population is generally opposed to government 
collection and distribution of rice. The Korean police undertook to 
search incoming trains during September in order to seize black market 
rice. This procedure provoked a storm of protest, and was soon abandoned. 
Because it respects free speech, the US Military Government in Korea must 
take public opinion into account in all its policies, whatever the cost 
to efficiency. 


Korean resistance to the US occupation has been encouraged by 
the leniency of US policy. Economic discontent has been converted into 
political unrest by the opponents of the Military Government in South 
Korea who calculated on the toleration of the US authorities. The 


aot Ok : eer 


Seer 


current uprisings are not so much the product of Popular grievances as 
of uncertainty. The US has not imposed upon the Koreans the kind of 
government to which they had become accustomed under the Japanese. By 
attempting to hold the balance between rival factions, the Military 
Government has confused the public as to its intentions, and impartial- 
ity has been interpreted as irresolution. 


Political Situation. The US intends to educate the Koreans, 
not to indoctrinate them. The Military Government has accordingly per- 


immediate withdrawal of both US and Soviet troops. Foreign control is 
unpopular in both the US and the Soviet Zones. The moderates of both 
right and left in South Korea will nevertheless Support. the US Military 
Government as the alternative to Soviet domination. General Hodge has 


coalition of parties and in establishing a provisional legislature in 
the US Zone. South Korea would thus gain a measure of self-government 

pending the execution of the Moscow Decision. ‘fhe majority is prepared 
to support the US interim program, which has now advanced to the point 
of realization. The unification of the right and the left was announced 
early in October, and elections have been held to the provisional legis-~ 
lature which was convoked during December. 


Soviet Program for South Korea. 
a Krell. 


til after the Communist party had been split, and its most violent 


under Pak Heun Yung. After denouncing the provisional legislature as a 
Separatist government in South Korea, and as a revival of the advisory 
council of the Japanese, the Communists have apparently embarked on a 
campaign of terrorism against the occupation. 


According to General Hodge's informants, the Communists in 
the US Zone are planning a general revolt for this winter in concert 
with the Soviets in North Korea. There is no immediate evidence of 
Soviet complicity, except the parallel efforts of Soviet propaganda 
to stir up unrest against the US occupation. Soviet intervention 
through the agency of the Korean Communist Party may nevertheless be 
assumed and can be expected to increase if the current disorders lead 
to a general insurrection. After returning from a recent visit to the 


° 


SeGRE—— 


Soviet Zone, a prominent leftist leader in South Korea declared that 
10,000 Soviet agents have infiltrated across the border during the. 
past few months. Reliable reports indicate that a large Korean armed 
force, possibly numbering as many as 300,000 to 400,000 men, is being 
organized in the Soviet Zone. In case a revolt should break out which 


“US troops could not subdue, the Soviets might intervene indirectly in 


South Korea by.means of these Korean irregulars. 


General Hodge has issued warnings of an impending invasion 
of the US Zone by Soviet-trained Koreans, and has accordingly requested 
that the US forces be brought up to T/O strength without delay. This 
invasion would probably take the form of mass infiltration, rather than 
of a regular military expedition. The Soviet army in North Korea, esti- 
mated at approximately 150,000, will presumably not cross the border, 
unless US troops should withdraw entirely from the peninsula. 


Future Soviet Objectives and Probable Developments 


The USSR has a twofold policy for Korea, which applies to both 
the US and the Soviet Zones. Soviet policy in North Korea is directed 
at the establishment of a Communist-controlled regime oriented toward 
complete collaboration with the USSR. The recent election of a perm- 
nent people's committee in the Soviet Zone represents the achievement 
of this immediate objective. The long-range objective of the USSR is 
to integrate the entire peninsula in the Soviet system of Far Eastern 
defenses. Since the US occupation constitutes the chief obstacle to 
the accomplishment of this purpose, Soviet propaganda and Communist 
agitation have been directed toward driving the US out of Korea. The 
attack on the Military Government in South Korea, which has been. 
pressed continuously since the beginning of the occupation, has become 
intensified with the consolidation of Soviet authority in North Korea 
and the development of an interim US policy for the South. 


Joint Commission negotiations for the execution of the Moscow 
Decision are still deadlocked, while the Communists strive to prevent 
by violence the establishment of an interim government in the US Zone. 
Diplomacy by the USSR has apparently given way to direct action by the 
Communist Party in South Korea, although the possibility always remains 
that the USSR will resort to compromise if radical methods fail. The 
first Soviet overtures to réconvene the Joint Commission coincided with 
the success of the unification movement of the right and the left in 
South Korea and the declaration of the coalition committee in favor of 
an interim legislature. The prospect of agreement faded rapidly as the 
US determination to- pursue the democratic reorganization of South Korea 
became apparent. In the end the USSR rejected the formula which the 
Soviet Political Adviser in North Korea had worked out together with 
Minister Bunce as a basis for reconvening the Joint Commission. © 


-4- 


—SPCRET 


There is therefore little prospect that the Moscow Decision 
may be carried out in the near future. Meanwhile, although the USSR 
gained the initial advantage by immediate sovietization of its zone, 
certain long-term advantages are on the side of the US. The large 
majority of Koreans in both zones are fervently opposed to domination 


= 10% - 2 SEGRET 


