25X1A2q 


hE oEBelee es UeRRRR ae 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GRO 


INTELLIGENCE REPORT 


eer Nee im) ae 
BB A a a 
Cae a Chet 
- . Se a 
Cee x 2 on . et ye 


ansuits At 33599 
csxinca wo 


SUBIECT Political Information: Contrels Encountered 
7 on @ frip through Nerth Korea DIST. 13 June 1947 


PAGES 3 


| SUPPLEMENT 
ORIGIN a! 25X1A6a 25X1X6 


ATE: 


1. No special permits or papers are required for travel as yet. 
It is necessary to carry the individual identification card 
issued by the Peoples Committee as this card is frequently 
ehecked. The lotal district leader of the district in which 
the traveler is registered is to be informed of any trips about 
to be taken but this regulation is very loosely complied with. 


2. All individuals are usually subjected te a routine check after 
the purchase of their railroad tickets and before boarding 
the train. This is conducted by a plainelothes inspector 
who Is usually a member of the Railway Peace Preservation Corps. 
Because of the lack of time and the many individuals involved 
this is a limited interrogation and consists only of inquiries 
regarding the traveler's destination and purpose, and an ine 
spection of the traveler's personal identification card, Passengers 
boarding the train at smaller stations are subjected to a more 
detailed questioning tefore teing alllowed to board the train. 


30 Another, more detailed check is conducted after the train has 
started. With the exception of the trip between Sinuiju (Shing~ 
ishu) (124=24,40~-06) and Pyongyang (Heijo) (125-44,39-01), the 
check was always conducted by three Koreans, two in the uniform 
of the Railway Peace Preservation Corps and one, an older man, 

4 in plsin clothes. All passengers were required to show their 
personal identification cards and sone ware subjected to a more 
detailed questioning. Those questioned in detail were usually 

‘ young people, particularly those who were wel dressed and who 
did not resenble laborers, farmers or merchants. The number 
of people questioned seemed to depend upon the mood of the ine 
spector, whe sometimes questioned.almost everyone in the car 
and other times, only a few. (Questions asked most frequently 
were: Where are you going? What is the purpose of your trip? 
Where are you from? Why do you have so much monay? Who is 
your section leader? What is your home address? Questions were 
often asked about the information contained on the personal identi~ 
fleation card, the answers being checked against the eard to de~ 
termine whether the traveler was familiar with his own ecard, 


Document No. 
NO CHANGE,-in 


me 


1as8. 


CLASSIFICATION conrrthorrA CONTRCL 1,5. 


OFFICIALS ONLT 


WRORERET Pe 


gunmen temgintoancs group | 
Sanitized - Approved Kor Release : ae 
: —2— 25X1A2g 


Questions were often asked about local conditions in the home 


district of the card holder. Personal seareh of individuals 

and baggage was frequently made, particularly when there was 
anything about a traveler to arouse suspicion. The inspection 

on the train between Sinuijn and Chongju (Teishu) (125-12, 39-42) 
was conducted by only two inspectors, both in plain clothes. 
Particular attention was paid to any passenger whose destination 
was south of Pyongyang. This inspection was one of the most strict 
of the trip. 


The following inspections were made during the train trip: 

Sinuiju station | Routine che els. Identification cards shown. 

Sinuiju to Chong ju Three inspections, one inmediately preceding 

arrival at Chongju. Search of persons and 
baggage made. 


Pyongyang to Wensan Routine station inspection at Pyongyang be- 


(Genzan) fore leaving. Several checks made on way 
to “onsan, Several passengers questioned but 


(127-26 , 39-10) examinaticn less strict than that between Sin- 
a viju and Pyongyang. First inspection took 
place one hour after departure of the train. 


Wonsan station Routine station inspection before boarding 
| | train to Hamhung (Kanko) (127-32, 39=54) 
Wonsan to Hamhung Inspection immediately preceding arrival at 
Hamhung. Several passengers questioned, About 
the same degree of strictness as exercised 
between Pyongyang and Wonsan. 


Hambung station Routine station inspection before boarding 
train to Nanam (Ranan) (12941, 41-42). 


Hamhung to Nanam One inspection of identifieation esrds. 


Return Trip 


Chong jin (Seishin) There was ne routine examination at this station 
(2.29540,41-46) prior to departure of the train. 
Station 


' Chong jin to Pyongyang Three inspections 


Pyongyang to Sinuiju Reutine station inspection at Pyongyang. Tyo 
; Resse inspections between Pyongyang and Sinul ju. 
Particular attention paid to any travelers from 
south part of North Korea. 


No road barriers or checks were encountered between the cities 
of Chongju and Pyongyang nor betwaen the cities of Nanam and 
Chong jin . 


COMPIDRTAL /CONPROT U.S. OFFICTaALS ONLY 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP82-00457R000600680008-7 


i 
I 


renee m 


Sanitized - Abprevest fin fielease:cCiAcRDP82-00457R0 NE 08-7 
| oS | 
: 25X1A2q ° 


In addition to the above inspections which took place in rail- 
Way stations or on board trains, the following inspections were 
made during the trip: | 


Road inspection Be tween coe and Uiju (Gishu) 

; SOT E an at Yonha-dony (124-28, 
40-08), a public bus was stopped; all 
passengers were required to show their 
identification cards and were questioned 
by three members of the Korean Peace 
Preservation Corps, who wore khaki 
uniforms and who came out on the road 
upon hearing the vehiele approaching. 

ey were armed with Japanese-type M-38 
rifles, <A personal search of the indi- 
‘viduals and their haggage was made and 
the questions asked were generally the 
same as those asked by inspectors on 

the trains, the answers being checked 
against the information on the identifi- 
cation cards, In comparison to other 

“ tations, this station was lax in its 
questioning. If the passenger was from 
sone other area of North Koren, however, 
the questioning was much more strict. 


Hotel investigation All trayelers stopping in the hotel at 
Kanni (fl SB =) (Chonni---125.36, 39-107), 
a small village, are investigated hy a 
regular patrol of three or four plain- 
clothes men who belong to the Foace 
Preservation Corps. This patrol also 
cheeks the hotel daily and questions 
all travelers. One reason fer the extensive 
questioning may be that Soviet troops are 
billeted in the town. . 


CONPINSETIAL/CONTROL u.s, OFFICIALS ONLY 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP82-00457R000600680008-7 


Too 1 7 aM OF 


5 
‘ 
' 
; 
i 
é 
* 
é 
| 
r 
. 
L 
| 
i 
= 
7 


