5166 


Approved For Release 2oositeid? india REESE YP MRO EUANEONOS.6, os 


COPY 


"COPY" 


MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY, NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE AUTHORITY: 


Subject: Approval of National Intelligence Requirements f. 


a 


r Korea 


1. The subject paper is: 
a. Approved without change 


be Approved, subject to the minor 
amendments set out below 


ce Disapproved. Request meeting of 
I.AeB. to consider paper 


de Return to drafting agency (checked) TBI 


ae ain rea etetomteiee 


26 Suggestions or amendments: 


(See attached sheet) 


NAVY review(s) completed. 


(signed) THOS. B. INGLIS 
gnature 
Rear Admiral, USNavy 
Chief of Naval Intelligence 
Return to: Room 7123 


North Interior Building 16 Sep 19,7 
CEstS) 


Ct ye 
Approved For Release 2003/10/07 : SNe aa RO OnO PaCS 


copy ae Seed he) -s | 
Approved For Relg¥S€’2003/10/07 ¥ C1x-ABPE0R01731Rodseaa06000SeEL. 


“COPy™ 


9731 


Subject: Approval of National Intelligence Requirements for Korea. 


Suggestions: 


It is recommended that the drafting agency reconsider this 
paper in the light of the following comments: 


&. The paragraph on military potentials of North Korea 
should be enlarged to include ~ 


(1) Current information on ports, landing beaches 
and routes inland in North Korea in amplification 
of that contained in JANIS Noe 75. 


(2) Current information on organization, training 
and equipment of the Coast Guard, Maritime 
Customs or other units in North Korea readily 
convertible to naval service. 


(3) Information on marine shipping facilities, 
including repair and construction facilities, 


(4) Information on aeronautical matters, both 
military and civil. 


be Under Section II, South Korea, consideration should 
be given to the inclusion of data on the relations between 
popular groups such as labor unions and similar groups in 
other countries. An example of this is relations between 
Korean labor groups and the Communist dominated WFTU through 
which the Soviets are able to further their objections among 
the South Korean labor groups. 


Approved For Release 2003/10/07 : PYM ee rte 


