- 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


IMPLEMENTATION OF SOVIET OBJECTIVES 
IN KOREA 


one62 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAN 
18 November 1947 . RELEASE IN FULL 

Document “aotser ta Srnes 
SECRET 


$0005 


ORE 62 a : Buca 


18 November 1947 Copy No.___& 


IMPLEMENTATION OF SOVIET OBJECTIVES IN KOREA 
SUMMARY 


Soviet tactics in Korea have clearly demonstrated that the USSR is intent on secur- 
ing all of Korea as a satellite. In pursuing this policy, the USSR has, since V-J Day, 
adhered to a definite program of infiltration, consolidation, and control. US reaction 
to this policy has resulted in minor departures from the Soviet schedule of operations 
but has not forced any change in the fundamental strategy. 

Since the US proposal that a UN Commission be appointed to supervise elections 
for a permanent Korean Government has been accepted by the UNGA, it might appear 
' that the Soviets, adamant against inspection of their zone, would be forced to continue 
their otcupation. In consequence, US occupation would also have to be continued, 
and the day of full Soviet control would thus seem to be indefinitely postponed. The 
Soviets, however, making use of their contention that the US, by unilateral action in 
the UN, has already abrogated the Moscow agreement, could withdraw unilaterally. 
This they could afford because they can now rely on the powerful military and political 
machine they have built in the North to carry out their policies in their-own physical 
absence. Under such circumstances, should the US wish to see the UNGA resolution 
implemented, it would presumably have to force entrance into North Korea, using 
military force against what the USSR would call an “independent” North Korea which 
was being ruthlessly trampled upon by an “imperialistic” nation. Similarly, any at- 
tempt by the US to act unilaterally in South Korea could be stigmatized as an unwar- 
ranted extension of the occupation for “imperialistic” ends, thus producing serious 
anti-US resentment among the South Koreans. 

Unilateral withdrawal, timed to take place prior to the arrival in Korea of the UN 
Commission, appears therefore to be an entirely probable Soviet tactic. If this step is 
taken, it will necessarily be accompanied by an order to the North Korean regime to 
resist at all costs the entry of the UN Commission into North Korea. It is probably the 
Soviet hope that in this situation the US will yield to pressure and withdraw its forces 
within a short period of time. Since no effective counterforce can be established by the 
US in South Korea without the investment of considerable effort over an extended 
period, US withdrawal would have the effect of leaving South Korea incapable of offering 
any serious resistance to eventual domination by the North. 


Note: This paper has been coordinated with the intelligence organizations of the Departments of 


State, Army, Navy, and Air Force. 
1 ena 


IMPLEMENTATION OF SOVIET OBJECTIVES IN KOREA 


Soviet tactics in Korea since V-J Day have consistently and clearly indicated a firm 
intention to accept no settlement which would not insure the acquisition of Korea as a 
loyal Soviet satellite in the Far East. Details of an alleged Soviet “Master Plan for 
Korea” were compromised in mid-1946, and subsequent events tend to confirm the fact 
that the USSR has been following the essential outline of this “Plan” with minor diver- 
gencies necessitated by tactical considerations. 


Original plans apparently called for an extended breathing-space to be provided 
by the use of stalling tactics in the US-USSR Joint Commission. The purpose of this 
was to make certain that no Korean settlement should be forthcoming until a powerful 
military-political machine had been constructed in North Korea under Soviet aus- 
pices. This was to be accomplished by the strengthening of the South Korean Com- 
munist Party through an increase in the membership of the so-called Democratic Peo- 
ples’ Front. The Communist Party itself was to go underground and mask its real 
strength by working through “front” organizations. It was also to concentrate on 
infiltrating its members into key positions in the administrative and police organization 
of South Korea. 


The USSR was signally successful in accomplishing the first of these purposes. 
When the Soviet forces entered North Korea in 1945, there were three main groups in 
the population which were considered capable of offering any organized resistance to 
Sovietization. These were: (1) the propertied classes—peasant proprietors and busi- 
nessmen, (2) nationalist youths, mainly students; and (3) religious groups with a 
Western orientation. From the outset, the vaunted political, economic, and social 
Teforms accomplished by the North Korean Peoples’ Committee have been specifically 
designed to eliminate this potential core of resistance. The Land Reform Law and the 
Business Tax have resulted in the actual expropriation of the propertied classes and 
added them to the stream of refugee dissidents swarming south over the 38th Farallel. 
The efficient police net established under the Bureau of Internal Affairs has functioned 
So successfully that the leading North Korean youth group, the Northwest Korean 
Youth Association, has been forced to move into the US Zone and is now almost Solely 
confined in its activities to terroristic acts against Leftists south of the 38th Parallel. 
Protestant and Catholic religious groups in North Korea have either been effectively 
absorbed into the Democratic Peoples’ Front or have been declared illegal and their 
terror-paralyzed leadership placed under house arrest. 


All available evidence indicates that the USSR has every reason to be confident in 
the loyalty and survival-power of its North Korean Peoples’ Committee. ‘The subordi- 
nation of this regime to the dicta of Soviet policy is assured by the fact that it has been 
carefully “packed” with Soviet-trained Koreans holding dual Soviet-Korean citizenship. 
Moreover, North Korean military forces have been carefully and soundly developed 
under Soviet guidance to the point where they are capable of taking over all of Korea 
without serious delay after the initiation of active operations. 


waeRET 


Although not as successful as the consolidation of control in North Korea, the 
strengthening of the Communist underground in the South proceeded sufficiently well 
as to encourage Soviet optimism. According to the original “Master Plan,” consolida- 
tion of Communist strength in both zones was to be followed by efforts directed toward 
& rapprochement with the South Korean Rightists which was to result in the erection 
of a coalition government oriented as far to the Left as possible. The USSR would then 
have made a proposal for mutual withdrawal of occupying forces to which the US could 
have had no legitimate objection. Following the withdrawal of both forces, a “state 
of emergency” was to have been produced by Communist agents provocateurs in South 
Korea. The North Korean armed forces, under the guise of quelling these disturbances, 
would seize effective control of the government, thus completing the task of uniting all 
Korea under Soviet domination. 


Developments were not permitted to follow this smooth pattern, however, because 
the time required for the rapprochement effort to bear any fruit was too extended, and 
the US, growing restive at the delay, embarked on a more aggressive line of action which 
tended to force the Kremlin’s hand. 


On 11 August 1947, Secretary of State Marshall, in a note to Foreign Minister 
Molotov, suggested that the Joint Commission be requested to issue a report of progress 
on the basis of which the two powers would consult as to the Steps necessary for the 
acceleration of Korean independence. The Kremlin promptly seized on the question 
of the report itself as an opportunity for further Stalling. When it became clear that 
the two delegations would not be able to agree even on a joint report of disagreement, 
Acting Secretary of State Lovett, on 26 August, dispatched notes to the four signatories 
to the Moscow Agreement requesting a conference in Washington to meet 8 September. 
The USSR on 4 September rejected this request, although the Kremlin must have 
known that the next US move would involve presentation of the case to the UNGA 
Session scheduled to convene on 17 September. This deliberate rejection by the USSR 
of another opportunity for continued stalling may be interpreted, in the light of later 
events, as a sign that the Kremlin was so confident in its strength in Korea, and on 
the countermoves it was contemplating, based on this strength, that it no longer felt 
any urgent need for delay. 

On 26 September, after the US had formally requested the inclusion of Korea on 
the UNGA agenda, the Soviet Delegation to the Joint Commission proposed mutual 
withdrawal of all occupying forces from Korea asa preliminary to the establishment of 
a unified Korean government by the Koreans “themselves.” Thus, US reaction to pre- 
vious Soviet policy had apparently forced a revision in the Soviet plan of operations. The 
avidity with which the Kremlin’s progaganda machinery followed up the withdrawal 
proposal clearly demonstrated that, although acceptance was not anticipated, the 
proposal would be employed as a diversionary tactic to obscure and perhaps delay UNGA 
dicussion until the rapprochement phase was completed in Korea and US objections to 
withdrawal thereby overcome. 

The USSR lost no time in pushing its efforts for creation of an all-Korean “coali- 
tion” government. On 7 October 1947, a group of relatively unknown Korean poli- 
ticlans approached G-2, US Armed Forces in Korea, after having conferred with the 


3 PSPORD io 


er 


“SECRET 


Soviet Delegation, and proposed a plan for creation of a unified Korean Government. 
Although this effort was unsuccessful, it was a clear indication of a Soviet attempt to 
secure the next objective in the original “Master Plan” under the smoke screen provided 
by the proposal for mutual withdrawal. 


The withdrawal proposal failed to achieve another of its purposes when on 5 Novem- 
ber, the Political Committee of the UNGA passed a US-proposed resolution which pro- 
- vided for national elections, under UN observation, for Korean representatives who were 
to consult with a UN Temporary Commission. These representatives would then con- 
stitute themselves a National Assembly which would establish a National Government 
and, in consultation with the occupying powers, arrange for the withdrawal of armed 
forces within 90 days “if possible.” 


Passage of this resolution will necessitate certain further revisions in the flexible 
Soviet plan of operations to meet changed conditions. However, there is no indication 
that the resolution will basically alter Soviet policy or even materially jeopardize its 
fulfillment. The USSR has given ample indication, in both its propaganda and in 
official statements before the UN, that it will take no part in implementation of the 
resolution. In effect, this means that no UN Commission will be permitted to enter the 
Soviet Zone for the purpose of observing the elections called for in the resolution. Such 
action will put the USSR distinctly on the defensive in relation to the whole Korean 
problem, both internationally and within Korea itself. Its argument that the North 
Korean regime is so thoroughly “democratic” that no UN supervision is warranted, 
will not carry any weight in the face of a sincere US attempt to achieve an orderly 
solution through the machinery of the UN. The implication will be unavoidable that 
the Soviets are deliberately preventing observation of a regime which simply will not 
bear inspection. 

It follows that continued Soviet occupation of North Korea under the above circum- 
stances will constitute, in effect, a policy of deliberate defiance of the UN. No mere 
propaganda gesture that the Kremlin can make at this juncture will remove from 
its shoulders the onus of unilateral obstruction of the realization of Korean inde- 
pendence. In addition, retention of Soviet forces on Korean soil would have the prime 
disadvantage, from the Soviet viewpoint, of justifying continued US occupation of 
the South. Since Soviet theoreticians have now apparently indicated indefinite post- 
ponement of the anticipated “general capitalist crisis” in the US, they can no longer - 
look for the appearance of this deus ex machina to force liquidation of US commitments 
in Korea. Thus continued Soviet occupation of the North would carry with it the 
corollary of continued US occupation of the South, with the consequence that the day 
of complete Soviet control of the whole peninsula would be indefinitely postponed. 
This situation would permit the institution in South Korea of precisely the sort of 
US program which the USSR seems to fear most. For it would enable the US, under 
the protection of its own security forces, to embark on a long-range program of eco- 
nomic, cultural, and political rehabilitation in South Korea, which would have the 
effect of offering to the native population of both zones a side-by-side comparison of the 
respective accomplishments and potentialities of the US and Soviet systems. 


4 Sea 


EE ___ETO IEE EE EE ee 


Sera 


Although continued Soviet occupation must always be kept in mind as a policy 
which the Kremlin may see fit to retain, it is clear that the one move that the USSR can 
now make which promises recapture of the initiative, is that of ordering a unilateral 
withdrawal of its occupying forces after declaring the North Korean Peoples’ Com- 
mittee the legal government of North Korea. This declaration will probably include 
recognition of the North Korean Government’s claim to sovereignty over South Korea 
as well. The Soviet delegation to the UN has already stated that the UN Temporary 
Commission is an “unrepresentative” body, that the resolution is “undemocratic,” and 
that therefore the USSR will not commit itself in any way to its implementation. Hence, 
the USSR will not feel bound by Section 4 (c) of the resolution, which stipulates that 
troop withdrawals may take place only after arrangements have been made between the 
duly elected national government and the occupying powers. In short, from the Soviet 
viewpoint, this provision will constitute.no legal obstacle to troop withdrawal. This 
withdrawal would be accompanied by an order to the Soviet puppet regime in North 
Korea to oppose at all costs the entry of the UN Commission. Legal recognition of the 
independence of this regime can be amply justified by the Kremlin, since it has been at 
pains to show that the US has abrogated the Moscow Decision in calling for UN Action 
in Korea. 

Since the UNGA has no forces at its disposal, its only recourse, should it seek to 
carry out its mandate, will be to request the aid of the US forces in South Korea. 
Should this occur, the US would be faced with a critical policy decision. Employment 

ETS of US forces would necessitate, in effect, an “invasion” across the 38th Parallel against 
the active opposition of the North Korean Peoples’ Army. Soviet propaganda would 
inevitably and incessantly charge the US with the wanton slaughter of innocent “demo- 
cratic and patriotic” Koreans, while charging the UN with unwarranted interference 
in the internal affairs of a “sovereign” state. It is probable that the Kremlin considers 
such outright US intervention in North Korea highly unlikely, even if it should have 
UN sanction. 

The USSR probably estimates that the US will accept the permanent division of 
Korea as inevitable and will attempt to proceed with a UN-supervised election for the 
establishment of a permanent independent government in the South. The USSR 
could then count on anti-occupation sentiment in the South to grow to such proportions 
as would make the US position as sole occupier of Korea untenable. The success of any 
US-sponsored politico-economic program in South Korea would be jeopardized by the 
antipathetic attitude of the native population. For the necessary agitation, the USSR 
could not only depend on its adherents, who constitute an estimated 30% of the South 
Korean electorate, but also on the auto-hypnotizing ambitions of the South Korean 
Rightists, particularly Rhee Syngman. The latter, after his initial shock at the Soviet 
proposal for mutual troop withdrawal, has already cancelled his plea for retention of 
US forces and has adopted the line that he is perfectly capable of “handling” the North 
Koreans once US forces are withdrawn. This persistent delusion on the part of Rhee 
and other South Koreans is good indication that “coalition” efforts have continued 
unabated and will be strengthened in the near future. Given the withdrawal of US 
forces, the North Korean regime can be expected astutely to capitalize on this atti- 


5 welt 


FE EE OO ee 


OER, 


tude, effect the “coalition,” and proceed with the domination of South Korea according 
to plan. 

Should the prospects for a “coalition” be unfavorable, it would be a relatively simple 
matter for the North Korean. Peoples’ Committee to brand the South Korean govern- 
ment “unrepresentative” and “undemocratic” since the South Korean Leftists will have 
boycotted the elections. Military invasion would thus constitute a “liberation” of the 
“suffering countrymen” in the South. 


In short, the question of tactics is merely incidental to the fact that North Korean 
domination of the South will be an inevitable consequence of the US troop withdrawal. 
As has been indicated, there is no evidence of any force in North Korea capable of dis- 
rupting, in any way, the smooth functioning control-mechanism of the Peoples’ Com- 
mittee. In addition, following US withdrawal, there will be no force, or coalition of 
forces, in South Korea capable of effective resistance to eventual domination by the 
North. The rightist leadership is so single-mindedly bent on dictatorial control that 
following its accession to power in an independent South Korean government, the 
moderates would join the leftist camp. Moreover, the rightist leadership has dis- 
played no capacity for extended cooperation even within its own ranks. As real 
power comes into its hands, intraparty cleavages can be expected to widen to the con- 
sequent advantage of the Left. Lastly, without previous US preparation, the South 
Korean rightist youth groups, police and constabulary, now warring among themselves, 
cannot be considered as any sort of effective counterforce to the North Korean People’s 
Army and its supporting police and constabulary services. 

In the light of these considerations, and in view of recent reports of Soviet prepara- 
tions for withdrawal, it is reasonable to expect that some time before 31 March 1948, the 
election date stipulated in the UN resolution, the USSR will order the unilateral with- 
drawal of its forces from North Korea as a step in the implementation of the general 
policy outlined above. It is impossible to predict the date of this withdrawal with any 
degree of certainty, but there is a good chance that the imminent departure for Korea 
of the UN Temporary Commission may be taken as the signal for the removal of Soviet 
troops from Korean soil. 


U. &. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
1928—S—1947 


