25X1A2g 


COUNTRY China DATE: -95x1A6a 
INFO. 
SUBJECT Political Information; The Korean Representative 
Group in Manchuria DIST. « «November 1947 
document is hereby regraded to PAGES 3 


25X1AG6a CON ITIAL in accordance with the 


ORIGIN ia leiter of Sciober 1978 from the SUPPLEMENT . 


25X1X6 


25x Ac i °° ererious reports on the Korean 
Representative Group, 


heading rersounel of the ABU. sukden 
3 The leading personne! of she Korcan Representative Group (KRG) in Mukden are: 


Chaicmans YI Kwang (2 71! Ja. ak. 
- Vice Chairman: KIM Hak-kvu (“p “3 4c. }, whe is also Chairman of the Xoreen 
Tndependence Party an Bokden. ~ bt bt 
4 Birt G4. t 7 133 . oe Bae. 4 f ZE Ai i 5 
% cits altos ¢ CHANG Ghin | A A } whose alias is CHA\G Kyon-kun (AEA IE. 
of Genural Affairs: KYE S¥ng-Sn AE Ex ms } 
of Relief Administration: EYE stng- arels 7 


of Civil Affairs: 1 Kyu-tong ( A ae Le 


vey of the ERG 


fipon the dissolution cf the Korean pots tons Government in China after the 
departure of the Chairmen, HIM Koo ou oie ), the cee National Government 
j moer of KIN Koo's, PAK Sun ( AI N Hit }, as the 

agentative Group in China with nena auantene in Neoking- 

HG was formed under FaR Sun to administer Korean affairs in China---political, 
atenorie and eultural, fa Chinese Nationel Goverrment finances the KRG, giving 
ii a sum eanal to US54500 a month, In addition to this sum, the KRG receives 
seartain funds from the Buc otang nertiy and the BIS (MND) ft Second Department, 
Ministry of National Defensd,. 


iN 


3a the BBG is merely @ sunaeteate organ for the adnintatrative organs of the Chinese 
tional ee benefiting the Chinese rather than the Koreans in China.. 
Le benefit to the Chinese is the Sell cooperation by tme KRG with 
tonal stevertaent Ln Gi aa scati ng ‘enemy preverty owned by Koreans. 
Gontiscations oF property owned by Kereans eccurred in Peiping, Sientsin and 
Shanghai during 1946. Th: Chincse Hational Government depends u.on the KRG to 
solve all Korean problems, rather than depending om Korean sccleties and associations. 


4, he KRG osteblished biranch offices in most of Menchurias these offices peryes as 
assisting organs for che pee National Government. The Koreen Residents 4 Assoc~ 
jation, various Korean Protestant societies and the Sino-Korean Cultural Association 


ave the inportant i yauitatacns among the Koreana in Menchuries 25X1X7 


cuassiricaT on commen, ii 


Document No. 


EMP EYE  PTT 


SSE SET SEPP 


SF RS TRE MR pee REE PTY 


eo 


Scien TES 


anf 


Approved For Rele 
y 25X1X7 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GROUP _— 25X1A6a 
wee 7 é 2 _ 


5. Within the KR are two types of individuals: (a) The pro=Chinese element and old 
Korean residents of Manchuria who left Korea in 1903 and 1913; and (b) Former 
Japanese collaborators, pro-Japnnese, who are presently using the KRG for protection. 
In both these categories aregpportunists end unscrupulous elaments, 


6. The proe-Chinese element of the KRG at one time supported the Hing A Tan (at # (§]). 
The Hing A Tan was a group formed to carry out the confiscetion of property ovned by 
Koreans who hed coiletorated with the Japenese; but this group also confiscated the 

25X1A2g property of non-collaborationists and killed 46 Koreens. General WANG Il-so 
(£ 3% 1B ) (See SNM for report on General WANG's activities) wes instrumentel 
in dissolving this group and in securing the arrest of its members, two of WANG'S 
men teing killed in the process by members of the !fing A Tan. At that time, General 
WANG was the chief of the Korean Administrative Department ofthe President's North- 
east Field Headquarters. The events described above occurred in the summer of 1946. 
The pro-Jaepanese element in the liUng A Tan joined the KRG shortly after the Hing 
A Tan was dissolved. 


?, Because the KRG acts more es a special service organizetion to the Chinese National 
Government than as a group devoted to the interests of Koreans, the Koreans them= 
selves do not rely on the KRG tut attempt to solve their problems alone. 


YI Poriin, Cli'CB Ting-hak, KIM To-myong 


8. The KRG is actually controlled ty a woman, Y1 Po-un ex te By, alias YI Mie-yong 
(= FES }. She controls the KRG through financiel backing, supplying it with 
NEC$1,9000,000 a month. YI's finencial support comes from General WEN Ch'iang, 
Chief of NECC G2 Section until 5 September 1947, and two other officers of high 
rank, names unknown. General WEN is reportedly connected with two opium factories 
in Mukden.- 


9, YI Po-tn is the adopted daughter of PAK Sun (also known as PAK Chtan-ik # AF 39] ond 
PAK Nam-pa #}+ #) 3@_),. Chairman of the Korean Representative Group in Nanking. She 
is 36 years old, © netive of Pyongyang (Heijo). Her present address is House 27, 
2nd Section of K'ang T'ai Street, Pei Shih District, Mukden. YI is living with a 
Korean CH'CE Ting-hak (42 3 && ), alies CII'OE Kae-sdk (ff ‘4 7% ) and a son of 
PAK Sun, PAK Yong-chun (At 3% ue ). CH'OB is a native of Iwon (Rigen), Namyong 
Nemdo, Korea; during the Japanese occupation of Manchuria, he held a high officiel 
position with the Manchukuo Government. He is at present unemployed. In early 
1947 CH'OR mede a trip to Seoul and returned to Manchuria wrere he recently meade a 
trip to Farbin and Changchun, reason unknown. YI Po-tin left Nanking by plene in 

“lete June 1947 and returned to Mukden; the reason for her visit to Nanking is unknown. 


40. YI Po=Un and CH’OE Tung-hek are affiliated with two distinct groups of Koreans; 
(a} The Korean Representative Group in China, which is pro-Chinese and which is : 
affiliated with KI; Koo end his colleagues of the former Korean Provisional Government 
in Chungking, most of whom are now in Korea; and (b) the unscrupulous former pro= 
Japenese element, opportunists and so-called Communists led ty KI}. To-mydng, cousin 
of Y1 Po-un, at present in Seoul. This group maintains direct communications with 
South Korea through its connection with leftist political organizations. It also has 
a jisison with North Korea and Chinese Communist-held Manchuria through the Chinese 
Communist Party in Manchuria. 


42. YI's history during the Japanese occupation is a history of collaboration with Japanese 
figures in Manchukuo. YI, at the time of the Japanese occupation, was closely 
associated with hey cousin, Klb. To-mydng (4° 8A }, whose Japanese name wes 
TAKAYAMA Domio (4 34 36 WA). KIM was at one time en important official in the 
Manchukuo Government; he later became a “self-styled" Communist. KIM had two elder 
brothers,whose Japanese names were TAKAYAMA Michiaya ( By 4 A 2K) and TAKAYAMA 
Michitake (i 4 #) or TAKAYAMA Michine ( s vy YA F& }- YI was closely 
associated with the KI! trothers and through them acquired a wide ecquaintance with 
top Manchukuo figures; during the war she was the mistress of a member of the capanese © 
Gendermcrie, HIROTA oe W ). YI, at this time, was a wealthy women. 


sn 


25X 1X oe CONTRO 


ee ee ee 


WE 


Approved For Reldas@7a ae oo 00860006-8 ~~ 


3 


ae o 


ApprovaaFBF Rete 7ROO 0¢-21219 


‘CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GROUP 


COMFBENTAE 


peeue Vay 1945 KIM To-rvdne was detained fer a certh by the Jerarnese auticritics 

nf a Corrunist susteet; after tis relesse he tceare an irfcrrer for the Jananese 
Sosdanr erie: His elder brother, TAKAYAVA fichtaya had been, in farch AT, detained 
for a ronth tr the rceliee in Mulern, susrceted of certain rebberies; at the tire 

uf Fis €etenticn he was teaching Snclish in a certain micile sekcel intlu*den. In 
Avril, TARAYALA Lickiava left fer Secul, Feres. The other brethcor, TAKAYAMA 
Vichite’e, at this tire was uner:leored. 


poeta tame eee 


ao cr 


~ 


At the tare cf the darancse aurrarder KIL Teervenc, Pid hwethor, TARAYALA Lichitete, 
and YI Peetfn.vera livice ea: won the cevit Aree coon: tod Vanehuria, KIL 

are Vie brother uererred as be-cunists; in serterker 2945 the tro orethers icft 

fer Korea. EI? stayed in Ticine are a: a ribiic cffirial for a tire, then 


rrocecded te scail where ke te nor espered in sec gert cf relitical aetivitye The 
samé year YI rude three tri:s cut of lubden stich teck her te Secul, Harbin and 


ChLangehuns 


document contains information 
y the national defense of the 
tUe_H i thin the moaning of 


as ‘anended. 
revelation of its aciterte 
to an unauthorized percen is pro 
by 1awo 


Approved For nS GARAGES Neb takers 7:0011000850008-5 5 


Se SSSR 


sare 


