2 } 
Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78- CIEE ree -2 


gases 
x i _ an 
eS Cae 
2 A 
=i ee | Me 
fe Pa ae 
; it 
| 
: f ; ° 
jot oe 
a uf 
L r 
zy 
= 
ae 
oF 
oes RSp A, 
: ~ Ee 
> “ 
! : : ~™ 
~~ 
‘ 
; -. 
oe v 7 Oa 
i 
~ 
aoe 
“7 * ea ™. 
~~ e \ 
; (atte 
\ 
Ne: 
oo a 
Y SS . aa << 
i Swe — : 
1 wae S . or 
; : } j fo ' Poa t. a = = TS 
/ ; : i LL it 2 a te x ee : an ae 2% 
Ne om 4-4 Aa . bes N , ai 
ML : ‘aa ue “tae: i ARCHIE XE ech 
PSS as mm st XN s 


Ve e: S ~ OONELSe ca gee \ =, 

/ ; 1 1 Hs apa oer a mY hates 
S Ores: 

be : é 


.CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE* ‘GROUP 
be a SR 2 


COPY NO. 
SECRET 


Bi and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


St RS Nas os 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


This (SR) series of CIG Situation Reports is designed to furnish to 
authorized recipients, for their continuing use as a reference, analyses and 
interpretations of the strategic or national policy aspects of foreign situations 
which affect the national security of the United States. The complete series 
will give world-wide coverage, including reports on all significant foreign coun- 
tries, geographical areas, or functional subjects. 


In the preparation of this report, the Central Intelligence Group has 
made full use of material furnished by the intelligence agencies of the State, 
War and Navy Departments and of the Army Air Forces. These agencies have 
also concurred in this report unless otherwise noted. 


It is suggested that the recipients retain this report, since it will be 
reviewed and, if necessary, revised in whole or in part each month hereafter. 


WARNING 


THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NA- 
-TIONAL DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF 
THE ESPIONAGE ACT, 50 U.S.C., 31 AND 32, AS AMENDED. ITS TRANS- 
MISSION OR THE REVELATION OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TO 
AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON IS PROHIBITED BY LAW. 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET - 
SR-2 
KOREA 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
SUMMARY i 
SECTION I - POLITICAL SITUATION 
1. Genesis of the Present Political Situation... ..ceceeees . I-l 
a. External Influences Affecting Korean Political Develonnent’ I-l 
b. The Korean Independence Movement...scccsscccsecesececeses I=] 
ec. Effects of Allied Policy and Its Tplenentelion ae Op I-2 
2. Current Political Situation... ..cccccccnccccsesssvesvesvenece 1-4 
a. Contrasting US and Soviet Occupation Programs........... I-4 
b. Current Situation in the Soviet Zone... ..ccccccceesesces 1-6 
c. Current Situation in the US Zone......... eee er ree eae LAY 
SECTION II - ECONOMIC SITUATION 
1. Genesis of the Present Economic System.... ee ora Metre ae JI-1l 
2. Description of Present Economic System........ceseeevoes .... II-1 
a. Agriculture and Fisheries........ee0. aoa do ratacletel ara oes las a tar aces II-2 
Dy Natural Resources iyidss ..v ieee bos 6545 4a es ee eae, Lhee 
C. InNduStry....cccecceves Basie ial eteiie abe wie erlansueicatte ore i o's, Sy@n'S tare vousese eos TI=-5 
Gs. - TRANS POFTALLON Scie ie eis wi eee d's r0le. 6 We b-o'elela 6 ale eta es sistéieeigecesee. LL=6 
Oe CMINANCE Ss owls iis eee 6 eae eas Bis ea ale! Cake ress Biased a there edese wie teace II-6 
f° sInternatronad. Trade see «vg.0cbcvw © & ose oie oes 070 0) biel alee use w8'S II-8 
3. Current Situation in the Soviet Zone......sseeee sdorearetaacectete’s II-9 
4. Current Situation in the US Zone. Se voe ess la else es eee eee II-10 


SECTION III - MILITARY SITUATION 
SECTION IV - STRATEGIC CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING US SECURITY 


SECTION V - PROBABLE FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS AFFECTING US SECURITY 


APPENDICES 
APPENDIX A - Topography 
APPENDIX B - Population Characteristics and Statistics 
APPENDIX C 


Chronology 
APPENDIX D - Biographical Data Doctment No. oo\ 


APPENDIX E - Map - Transportation Routeg) cyancg in Class. (] 
APPENDIX F - Map - Topographic prCrASSIPIED | 
ee CrANcnD TO: TS S$ @G 
BDA Momo, 4 Apr 77 SECRET 
Auth: PDA RIG. 77/1763 


neve UIE ov: D2 


4 
Declassified and Approved For Release 5613/01/29. CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


! 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


SUMMARY 


Korea's immediate significance to the security of the US lies in 
the fact that it is the critical point of contact between the US and the USSR 
in the Far East. Korea can be of little military value to the US, but the 
failure of the US to meet its commitments regarding Korean independence would 
result in serious loss of prestige. From a long-range view, however, Korea 
is important to US security because Soviet control of this strategically 
situated peninsula would jeopardize US political aims in China and Japan, and 
would thus threaten all US security plans throughout the Pacific. 


Koreans have always resisted outside penetration, and for centuries 
successfully maintained their isolation despite Chinese suzerainty. Forty 
years of Japanese domination only intensified the desire of Koreans for free- 
dom from foreign interference. Korean nationalism was manifested in the 
formation of groups, at home and abroad, which fought for independence from 
1919 until the liberation of Korea from Japan in August 1945. Nationalism is 
therefore a deeply imbedded characteristic of the large majority of the Korean 
people. 


Korean aspirations for sovereignty and independence were recognized 
and their realization was guaranteed by the US, USSR, UK, and China through 
international agreements reached at Cairo, Yalta, Potsdam, and Moscow. The 
US and the USSR, as powers in occupation of zones South and North of the 38th 
parallel, respectively, have failed to agree, however, on the means of carry- 
ing out the terms of the Moscow Decision. This disagreement reflects a 
difference in basic aims. The USSR seeks to establish a united Korea under a 
government subservient to the USSR, to re-orient Korean economy toward the 
USSR while developing Korean industrial and agricultural potential, and to 
integrate the Korean peninsula into the Soviet system of Far Eastern defenses. 
The US seeks to establish a self-governing Korean state independent of foreign 
control with a representative national government, to establish a sound econ- 
omy with multilateral, non-discriminatory trade opportunities, and to ensure 
permanent military neutralization. 


The- absence of agreement between the US and the USSR has converted 
supposedly temporary partition into the governing factor in Korean political 
and economic life. Both the USSR and the US have initiated programs in their 
respective zones to implement their contradictory basic aims. Freedom from 
foreign interference has remained the dominant aspiration of the Korean 
people; the inability of the occupying powers to unite the country has 
brought Korea nothing but political discord and economic stagnation. The 
contradiction between the US and Soviet programs has added significance be- 
cause Japanese domination left the Koreans politically inexperienced and with 
an economy which had been designed solely to serve Japanese purposes. 


The Sovietization of Korea-north of the 38th parallel began immedi- 


ately after the occupation and has proceeded since that time without inter- 
ruption. The Zone is organized as a police state in which opposition to the 


-i- SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


_—— ee 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


regime is rigorously suppressed and political activity is controlled by 
Communist-dominated People's Committees. The economy of North Korea, based 
on nationalization of the extensive former Japanese holdings and the redis- 
tribution of large land holdings, has also been reconstructed on the prin- 
ciple of state control. Despite greater industrial resources, a better 
balanced economy, and the fact that a large majority of all Koreans favor 

a socialistic program, the economic problems in the Soviet Zone are now 
more acute than in the US Zone, and the Soviet program does not appear to 
have won the support of the Korean people. Nevertheless, in its zone the 
Soviet regime has spurious evidence of popular support in the form of 
general elections held in November 1946, which followed the well-known 
totalitarian pattern and gave overwhelming support to the government's 
slate. There is little likelihood of a future departure from the established 
pattern in the Northern Zone, because the Soviet-controlled police, backed 
by a native Korean Army totalling 200,000 allows no opportunity for public 
expression of general discontent or the overthrow of established Communist 
rule. 


In South Korea, the US Military Government established an ad- 
ministration aimed at relieving the wants of the people while educating them 
for self-government. Reluctance to settle issues for fear of prejudicing 
the work of a future Korean government and an endeavor to maintain a balance 
among Korean political parties have handicapped the reconstruction of 
political and economic life in South Korea; US hopes for the resumption of 
negotiations leading to the implementation of the Moscow Decision led to a 
postponement of unilateral political and social reorganization there. When 
delay in the resumption of Joint Commission meetings was prolonged, however, 
the US undertook the establishment of an advisory legislature for the US Zone 
and the gradual transfer of administrative authority from US to Korean per- 
sonnel. While the policy of retiring US personnel to advisory positions has 
had Korean support, the issue of an interim legislature has been a source of 
dispute since its inception. Elections held in October 1946 for the Interim 
Legislative Assembly gave an overwhelming majority to the Right. Prior and 
subsequent US efforts to unify moderates of the Right and Left were not 
successful. Rightists hold the lion's share of positions in administration 
of the US Zone while the Leftists are attempting, primarily by covert means, 
to obstruct the US program and to discredit the US Military Government. The 
US alienated influential Rightist elements when it agreed with the USSR, in 
principle, that groups continuing to oppose the Moscow Decision would be 
excluded from consultation with the Joint Commission in the formation of an 
all-Korean provisional government. 


Meanwhile, the acute food shortage which provoked rice riots in 
the fall of 1946 has been relieved. The imposition of marketing controls 
and improvements in the collection and distribution of grain make possible 
the best ration in South Korea since the end of the war. Lack of fertilizer 
hampers the restoration of agriculture to prewar levels of production, how- 
ever, and necessitates continued large-scale food imports. Continued re- 
vival of other segments of the economy is substantially dependent on imports 
which must be supplied principally through foreign loans or grants and 
through managerial and technical assistance. 


ti SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


While Korea's vulnerability to attack from the north limits US 
military capabilities in this area, the emergence of a unified Korea under 
Soviet domination would constitute a major political defeat for the US. 
Well aware of this, the USSR intentionally created and prolonged political 
stalemate while consolidating its control of North Korea and attempting by 
all possible means to disrupt US efforts toward stability in South Korea. 
In pursuing these delaying tactics, the USSR has been counting upon the 
possibility that the US public would be unwilling to continue to bear the 
cost of military occupation and economic assistance, particularly since 
the USSR is relying on the possibility that the US faces economic depression 
which will force a drastic reduction in the role of the US in international 
affairs. 


The progress made in the US Zone toward the establishment of a 
basis of a democratic Korean government and the implication of the Truman 
Doctrine that the US intends to continue its support of Korean aspirations 
for independence, may have caused the USSR to agree to reconvene the Joint 
Commission on terms acceptable to the US. The USSR may well be willing to 
make concessions in the Joint Commission or on the governmental level in 
order to reach agreement if it estimates that Korean Communists are capable 
of bringing Korea eventually within the Soviet orbit. This is a more likely 
development than a proposal of US-USSR withdrawal. In the event of an 
impasse in the Joint Commission a dangerous possibility is the unilateral 
withdrawal of Soviet troops in order to try to force a withdrawal of US 
troops and leave South Korea open to penetration by the Communists backed 
by the North Korean Army. The USSR is not likely to adopt this course unless 
it believes that the concessions required to achieve agreement would nullify 
the possibility of ultimate Communist control of Korea. In any case, the 
USSR will continue to seek to place on other signatories the onus for any 
failure to implement the Moscow Decision. The USSR, however, probably hopes 
to resolve the Korean issue in its favor without reference to the UN, where 
world opinion would be focused upon Soviet activities in North Korea. 


Eventually either the US or the Soviet concept of democracy must 
prevail in Korea. If the choice lies with the Koreans themselves, it will 
be determined by the relative political strength of the Sovietized North 
Korean regime and the democratically inclined political parties of South 
Korea. A national provisional assembly in which representation was accorded 
on the basis of population theoretically would be controlled by the South, 
but the multiple parties of the South could not retain this control except 
by coalition, held together by leaders who now engage in bitter personal 
rivalry. Such a coalition would be in constant jeopardy in the face of 
impact from the cohesive, communist-controlled bloc from the North sup- 
ported by the North Korean Army. Unless the formation of a national govern- 
ment can be accomplished with accompanying safeguards against Communist 
tactics, it will be impossible to establish Korea as a sovereign and indepen- 

' dent state. 


S PAP SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


SECTION I 
POLITICAL SITUATION 


1. Genesis of the Present Political Situation 


a. External Influences Affecting Korean Political Development 


Long known as the Hermit Kingdom, Korea, by reason of its geo- 
graphic location, succeeded during many centuries in maintaining virtual 
isolation from more powerful neighbors. Having adopted Chinese civiliza- 
tion at the beginning of its history, Korea was ruled under the loose 
suzerainty of the Chinese until the end of the 19th century. This alle- 
giance of Korea to China resembled the relationship of younger brother 
to elder brother in the Confucian morality. The relationship implied a 
certain degree of subordination but not by any means subjection. In this 
semi-autonomous position Korea had sufficient freedom to develop a national 
culture without ever achieving national sovereignty in the modern sense. 


Korea was opened to the outside world at a time when national- 
ism and imperialism were at their height. Although the Japanese were 
well acquainted with the application of Confucian ethics to interna- 
tional relations, they chose to regard Korea as a sovereign nation ac- 
cording to the Western definition. Japan therefore recognized the in- 
dependence of Korea in the treaty of 1876 and proceeded to undermine 
the Chinese position of preference in the peninsula. In this maneuver, 
Japan could count on the support of the Western powers who cout not 
conceive of independence apart from sovereignty. 


Once the barrier of isolation was forced, Korea became the 
crossroads of international conflict in northeast Asia. Japan and 
China undertook the first joint occupation of Korea in 1885. Since they 
were rivals for hegemony in the peninsula, the occupying powers soon fell 
at odds. Chinese influence tended to predominate until the outbreak of 
the Sino-Japanese War in 1893. This conflict which arose over a Japanese 
demand for the withdrawal of Chinese troops from Korea ended in a striking 
victory for the Japanese. The expulsion of China from Korea, however, 
redounded chiefly to the benefit of the Russians, who held the Maritime 
Province of Siberia. For a time Russian influence replaced the Chinese 
at the court in Seoul and Japan did not secure uncontested control of 
Korea until the decisive defeat of Russia in 1905. Korea preserved a 
semblance of self-government under the Japanese protectorate until 1910, 
when the Korean king finally abdicated in favor of the Emperor of Japan. 
From then on, until her liberation by the Allies in August 1945, Korea 
was governed as a Japanese colony. 


b. The Korean Independence Movement 


Intense nationalism developed in Korea primarily as a result of 
long isolation and subsequent relations with foreign powers which 


I=1 : SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


consistently worked to the detriment of the Korean people. Koreans at 
home and in exile have consistently given evidence of a strong desire for 
immediate and complete independence. Although the Japanese were partially 
successful in winning over the Korean royalty and aristocracy through 
titles, gifts and preferences, national consciousness grew steadily among 
all classes under Japanese rule. The higher level of education, the more 
efficient administration, and the industrial development which the Japanese 
brought to Korea only,served to stimulate the desire for independence. 
This desire for independence led to the organization of Korean underground 
nationalist groups during the period of Japanese rule, while other groups 
chose to leave Korea and to work for Korean independence in exile. 


The foremost Korean independence group in exile was the Korean 
Provisional Government (Kopogo). This group, founded in Shanghai following 
the failure of the Korean uprising of 1919, received the nominal allegiance 
of nearly all other exile groups including the Korean Communist Party. The 
Kopogo drew up a Provisional Constitution, established a Provisional Legis- 
lative Assembly and controlled the Korean Independence Army which operated 
as a part of the Chinese National Army. Despite the inclusion of more 
liberal elements, including Kim Kiu Sik, the political viewpoint of Kopogo 
under the leadership of Kim Koo and Rhee Syngman was largely conservative. 
(It was under the chairmanship of Rhee Syngman that the Korean Commission 
was established to represent Kopogo in the US.) 


Koreans both at home and abroad were generally united in opposition 
to Japan until shortly before the outbreak of war in the Pacific. As tension 
mounted between Japan and the Pacific colonial powers, however, the pre- 
viously distant prospect of Korean independence at last seemed to be moving 
nearer. Various factions emerged in preparation for the coming struggle for 
power. The Korean Provisional Government, which had had a virtual monopoly 
of Korean representation abroad since 1919, was suddenly challenged by rival 
organizations. In January, 1941, the Korean Independence League was founded 
under Communist sponsorship at Yenan, China. Shortly afterwards the opponents 
of Rhee Syngman among the Koreans in the US banded themselves together in the 
United Korean Committee. These two groups, one in China and the other in the 
US, were not officially associated, but personal contact was maintained on an 
informal basis. The KIL and the UKC constituted the beginnings of Leftist 
opposition to the leadership of Rhee Syngman and Kim Koo, and between them 
they presented a fair cross-section of Korean Leftist opinion, ranging from 
the extreme pro-Communism of the Yenan organization to the "liberalism" of 
the US group. 


ec. Effects of Allied Policy and Its Implementation 


In the course of the Second World War the Allies repeatedly promised 
independence to Korea. These promises are embodied in the Cairo Declaration 
which was issued by the US, UK, and China in December 1943 and confirmed by 
the Potsdam Declaration of July 1945. Since Soviet adherence to the Far 
Eastern policy of the Allies had in the meanwhile been obtained at Yalta in 
February 1945, the USSR adhered to the Potsdam Declaration, upon going to war 


I-2 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
, SECRET 


with Japan in August 1945. When Japan surrendered, the US and USSR, as an 
expedient to facilitate the surrender of Japanese forces in Korea, pro- 
ceeded with the previously agreed upon joint occupation of Korea and in- 
formally agreed on the 38th parallel as the line of demarcation between 
their respective forces. 


Shortly after the Japanese surrender, the Allies attempted to 
unite Korea before the artificial partition had had time to work its bane- 
ful effects. At the Moscow Conference of Foreign Ministers in December 
1945, the representatives of the US, UK, and USSR, with the consent of 
China, made specific arrangements for the implementation of the Cairo and 
Potsdam Declarations. The Moscow Decision provided that a Joint Commission 
of the US and USSR should consult with "Korean democratic parties and 
social organizations" in framing a provisional government for the whole 
country. This provisional government would then assist in drawing up a 
program of political and economic reforms to serve as the basis of a four- 
power trusteeship of the US, UK, USSR, and China for a period up to five 
years prior to granting Korea complete independence. 


At the time of its announcement, the trusteeship clause of the 
Moscow Decision aroused a storm of protest in Korea which has not subsided 
to this day. This protest came from the natural objection of the Koreans 
to interference, however temporary, by foreign powers which gave Korea 
something less than immediate and complete independence. Resentment was 
intensified by political leaders who played upon traditional Korean 
nationalism by declaring that Allied trusteeship in effect meant a quad- 
ripartite displacement of Japan as "trustee" of Korea and that this con- 
cealed an attempt to stifle the aspirations of the people* for freedom 
from outside interference. 


All Korean parties originally joined in protesting against trustee- 


ship, but the Communists and their fellow-travelers executed a remarkable 
about-face once the USSR had manifested its support of the Moscow Decision 
in toto. Since then opposition to trusteeship has been the distinctive 
badge of all parties except those dominated by the Communists, without 
losing its general appeal among Koreans. When the Joint Commission met in 


* Although all Koreans want freedom, on specific subordinate issues, when 
speaking of what Korea as a whole may aspire to or fear, it is necessary 
to bear in mind the aualifications that by "Korea" is meant only the 5 

or 10% of the adult population which maintains an active interest in 
national or international developments. Since a small group may not 

have the mass solidarity of a large electorate, the tide of fickle public 
opinion at present characterizing Korea may shift radically. By the same 
token, if some of the national apathy can be wiped away, then public 
opinion may eventually take on more authority. 


I-3 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


ey 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


Seoul in March 1946 to carry out the terms of the Moscow Decision, the 
USSR had apparently decided to explort opposition to trusteeship as a 
means of disqualifying from participation in the provisional government 
all political elements except those under Communist domination. For six 
weeks the Soviet delegation argued for an application of the Moscow 
Decision which would have precluded consultation with groups other than 
Communists. Since adherence to the Soviet view would in effect negate 

the right of free speech, the US was equally insistent on the right of all 
representative groups to be heard. This led to the adjournment of the 
Joint Commission without result in May 1946. For the ensuing year all 
efforts to implement the Moscow Decision foundered on the contradiction 
between the US and Soviet positions on the right of Korean groups to par- 
ticipate in the forming of a provisional government. In the meanwhile, the 
growing divergences between the US and Soviet Zones of occupation daily 
increased the obstacles to the eventual unification of Korea. 


2. CURRENT POLITICAL SITUATION 


a. Contrasting US and Soviet Occupation Programs 


The contradiction between the US and Soviet political ideologies 
has again been illustrated in Korea where the application of opposing 
policies to similar situations at the beginning of the occupation had 
added significance because forty years of Japanese rule had done nothing 
to prepare the Korean people for self-government. On their arrival in 
Korea, the US and Soviet forces both found that local politically con- 
Scious Koreans, with some assistance from the Japanese, had formed People's 
Committees during the interim between the surrender of Japan and the be- 
ginning of the occupation. The Soviet forces, which arrived first, at once 
recognized the People's Committees north of the 38th parallel as the 
legitimate "interim" representatives of the Korean people. The US forces 
on the other hand refused to commit themselves to support in advance the 
claims of any one group to rule Korea. General Hodge accordingly refused 
to recognize the so-called People's Republic, which had been elected by 
the People's Committees on 6 September 1945, except as another political 
party.* When Rhee Syngman and the members of the Korean Provisional 
Government arrived in South Korea, they were accorded the same treatment. 
The result was that the supporters of both the People's Committees and 
the Korean Provisional Government considered themselves slighted by the 


* In post-occupation Korean affairs there has been a continual reshuffling 


of numerous political groups. The parties, as such, are not the only 
political groups. Labor unions, cultural and religious groups have impor- 
tant political significance, for these have either been founded upon a 
political ideal or subsequently infiltrated by political party members. 
Because of the resultant melange and multiple party affiliation (in the 
South), the importance of individual political groups is secondary to the 
personal stand and influence of group leaders. The multiplicity of political 
groups has made necessary the use of coalitions to obtain effective strength. 
As an arbitrary measure coalitions favoring trusteeship have been classified 
as the Left Wing; all opposing trusteeship as the Right Wing. 


J-4 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


US authorities. Since the US Military Government furthermore made temporary 
use of the Japanese officials at the beginning of the occupation, the vari- 
ous Korean factions convinced themselves that they had a legitimate griev- 
ance against the US. 


The USSR had taken advantage of its position of control to impose 
on the Koreans north of the 38th parallel a regime of full-fledged totali- 
tarianism. Soviet policy of achieving control through regimentation is 
based on a determination to place responsibility for the political and 
economic welfare of the area on Soviet-recognized representatives of the 
Korean people. Having accepted the People's Committees in North Korea, the 
USSR promptly proceeded to pack them with native communists and organize 
them along lines similar to the Soviets of the Russian Revolution. By 
organizing a police state, these People's Committees have ruled North Korea 
at the bidding of the Soviets for nearly two years not only without economic 
assistance, but in spite of the economic demands which the Soviet forces 
have made on the area. Unencumbered by the remnants of parliamentary de- 
‘mocracy or by the traditions of Liberalism, North Korea has in fact offered 
less resistance to the extension of Soviet influence than any of the Euro- 
pean countries. 


In South Korea, on the other hand, the US Military Government had 
established an administration aimed at relieving the wants of the people 
while educating them for eventual independence and self-government. In this 
approach the US labors under a handicap because it endeavors to maintain a 
balance among Korean parties. The Military Government has been reluctant to 
settle many issues for fear of favoring one group above another and of 
prejudicing the work of a future Korean government. But pending the imple- 
mentation of the Moscow Decision, the US has guaranteed the Koreans certain 
fundamental liberties the maintenance of which required resistance to the 
constant pressure of the USSR and its adherents. The unwillingness of the 
USSR to grant similar liberties to all Koreans in effect was responsible 
for the deadlock of the Joint Commission holding the Moscow Decision in 
suspension for more than a year. The fact that the US hoped for the re- 
sumption of negotiations led to a postponement of unilateral political and 
social reorganization in South Korea. Since the USSR did not delay the 
implementation of Soviet policy in its zone, North Korea appears to have 
moved farther toward self-government and egalitarian reform than the US 
zone. However, US policy has prepared southern Korea for the acceptance 
of a democratic form of government, a condition which is not even approxi- 
mated in the North. 


Thus subjected to the forces of joint US-Soviet occupation, the 
Korean Independence movement, originally split into groups operating under- 
ground in Korea and groups in exile, now is shattered into numerous Right 
Wing groups which call for immediate independence, and Communist-dominated 
Left Wing groups which have agreed to accept independence via trusteeship. 
The Leftists are the only articulate groups in the North; in South Korea 
political life is still dominated by a rivalry between Rightists and the 
remnants of the Left Wing People's Committees. 


I-5 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


b. Current Situation in the Soviet Zone 


In its zone the Soviet regime has spurious evidence of the whole- 
hearted support of every element in the population. But despite their 
constant reiteration of the word "democratic" the Soviet authorities in no 
wise rely upon the consent of the governed. Nothing in North Korean politics 
is left to chance or to the vagaries of public opinion. The ruling hier- 
archy of "people's committees” is buttressed at every stage by a duplicate 
member of the Communist party structure which controls every phase of public 
life in the Soviet Zone. The government party not only enjoys a monopoly 
of political leadership in North Korea, it also supervises, inspires and 
infiltrates every association and grouping which may claim to represent the 
citizens in any of their social, economic or cultural activities. The gov- 
ernment can thus obtain on a given signal the seemingly spontaneous ex- 
pression of popular opinion from any segment of the population. Under these 
circumstances, it becomes impossible for the individual to make himself heard 
on any subject unless he conforms to the "party line." 


Throughout Korea, the parties of the Left were early subject to 
infiltration. In North Korea, under strong Soviet pressure, the moderate 
elements of the People's Front soon succumbed to the Communist assault. 
The announcement of the Moscow Decision at the end of December 1945 pre- 
sented to the USSR an opportunity for the total suppression of opposition. 
All individuals and groups which refused to endorse trusteeship at that 
time were branded as reactionaries and barred from political activity. 
Since the vast majority of Koreans on both sides of the border are hostile 
to foreign control under any guise, the trusteeship issue has provided a 
convenient pretext for imposing minority rule on North Korea. 


The single party system has thus prevailed in North Korea since 
early in the Soviet occupation, but the Communist Party has consistently 
exercised its domination through "front" organizations. In fact since 
July 1946, the Communist Party no longer exists under its own name, for 
it has been merged with other Leftist groups into the North Korean Labor 
Party. In order to complete the democratic facade, the Soviet authorities 
last fall decided to give their system in North Korea the supreme sanction 
of a plebiscite. On 3 November general elections were held in the Soviet 
Zone for the local and provincial People's Committees. These elections 
followed the well-known totalitarian pattern in which the voter is given 
no choice but to support or reject an official slate of candidates. Ap- 
parently no attempt was made to keep the balloting secret or the registra- 
tion free, and the elections resulted in an overwhelming victory for the 
regime. The Moscow radio was able to brag that over 96% of the electorate 
had gone to the polls, while the government candidates had polled approxi- 
mately 99% of the vote. In this carnival of compliance, the only notable 
opposition seems to have come from the native Catholic community, which, 
in several instances observed by the US Liaison Officer in Pyong-yang, 
refused to have any part in the electoral proceedings. 


The general election of 3 November marks the end rather than the 
beginning of revolution in North Korea. In contrast to usual democratic 


I-6 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-016174001400030001-2 
SECRET 


procedure, the elections in the Soviet Zone constitute not so much a point 
of departure for new developments as the confirmation of the old. Thus 
the general elections in the North have merely consecrated the status quo. 
As a result of the plebiscite the People's Committees have dropped the 
qualification "interim" from their title. The democratic facade was 
recently completed by the addition of a "Council of Representatives" and 
a "Peoples Council" as legislature, which masks but does not alter the 
totalitarian regime. Otherwise no significant change can be found. 


The transformation of the political and social institutions of 
North Korea occurred in the opening stages of the occupation when the 
USSR was liquidating the remnants of Japanese rule. In the course of 
this liquidation, the Soviets took over from the Japanese almost all the 
big industrial and financial establishments of North Korea. [The control 
of North Korean banking, transportation and heavy industry has thus been 
vested in the People's Committees, so that private enterprise _is now con- 


fined largely to agriculture and the handicrafts. The question of land \. 
reform, which is pending in the South, has been settled in the North. 

The USSR claims to have distributed 2,471,000 acres free of charge to the: 
tenants. ; 


The USSR has undeniably taken the lead in economic and social 
changes. A labor law was promulgated in the Soviet Zone before it was 
enacted in the US Zone, and judging from appearances, the first two years 
of occupation have brought great changes north of the 38th parallel. 
These changes, however, have been chiefly in the direction of further 
regimentation and closer state control. In the Soviet Zone, the indi- 
vidual has given up his liberty for a rather dubious assurance of "social 
security", so that after an initial period of enthusiasm for Communism, 
the Korean people seem finally to have reacted against the USSR. Evi- 
dence of discontent and apathy in the Soviet Zone is provided by the 
official propaganda put out to combat the symptoms of disaffection. Such 
observers' reports as are available likewise tend to confirm the impres- 
sion that the USSR has become unpopular with the Koreans who live under 
them. The Soviet-controlled police system, however, allows no opportuni- 
ty for this general discontent to be expressed publicly oar to overthrow 
established Communist rule. 


¢c. Current Situation in the US Zone 


The rivalry between the Leftist People's Committees and Rightist 
elements of the former Provisional Government in exile still dominates the 
political life of the US Zone with the US attempting impartially to es- 
tablish democratic procedures. Almost two years after the liberation the 
Leftists are still demanding that the US recognize the People's Committees, 
while the Rightists continue to work for the early establishment of an in- 
dependent provisional government. Both the Right and the Left join in de- 
manding the unification and independence of Korea. All South Korean 
parties seem, moreover, agreed that the future Korean government must 
nationalize the industries and redistribute the land. This Socialistic 


1-7 SECRET 


_ Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


program is the common property of both Right and Left, for there are ap- 
parently no articulate proponents of capitalism among the Koreans. With 
regard to method and personnel, however, bitter differences have arisen. 
The Leftists wish to proceed as expeditiously and ruthlessly as possible 
with the proposed reforms. They favor revolutionary procedures such as 
outright expropriation where the Rightists prefer indemification. Per- 
sonal conflicts embitter the discussion, since the Leftists make no secret 
of their intention to punish prominent Rightists for their past collabora- 
tion with the Japanese. Since most parties of the Left are dominated by 
the Communists and their fellow-travelers, the Soviet Union and its poli- 
cies have become an important issue between the Left and Right in South 
Korean politics. 


When it became apparent last summer that there was no prospect 
of the prompt renewal of Joint Commission negotiations, the US undertook 
to promote the democratization of South Korea in order to match the in- 
creasing sovietization of the North. The cardinal points of the program 
were the establishment of an advisory legislature for the US Zone and the 
gradual transfer of administrative authority from American to Korean per- 
sonnel. In this way the Koreans would be brought to share in the execu- 
tive and legislative functions of the Military Government, and receive 
training for eventual independence and democracy. 


Leftists denounced the US plan from the start as a sham and a 
subterfuge devised to split Korea irrevocably into two parts by setting 
up a separate government south of the 38th parallel. These accusations 
had some color of truth, for every advance made in South Korea toward 
parliamentary democracy would necessarily widen the gulf between the US 
and Soviet Zones. The Military Government, however, refused to be swayed 
from its goal by the attacks of Soviet and Communist propaganda, and 
steadfastly maintained that the achievement of self-government in one 
zone was a step toward the establishment of democracy in the whole of 
Korea. Two important steps have now been taken to comply with the in- 
terim US policy for South Korea: the replacement of American by Korean 
officials in the chief posts. of the administration and the convocation 
of a South Korean Interim Legislative Assembly. While the policy of 
retiring US personnel to purely advisory positions in the Military Gov- 
ernment has had Korean support from the time of its announcement in 
September 1946, the device of an interim legislature has given rise to 
bitter disputes since it was first proposed publicly in June of last 
year. 


In order to get popular support for its legislative project, 
the US Military Government in South Korea had to organize a unification 


movement of the Right and the Left. The parties of the Right, grouped 
in the Representative Democratic Council, were nominally led by Kim Kiu 


I-8 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


Sik but actually came under the influence of Rhee Syngman* and Kim Koo, 
former heads of the Korean government in exile. General Hodge obtained 
the cooperation of Kim Kiu Sik early in the proceedings. Since Rhee 
Syngman and Kim Koo were also favorable to the institution of an advisory 
legislature, the coalition movement met with little resistance from the 
Right. The Left, however, was sharply divided between moderates and ex- 
tremists. Lyuh Woon Hyung, president of the People's Party, largest of 
the Leftists groups, set out to marshal the moderates for a great struggle 
against the domination of the Communist Party led by Pak Heun Yung. The 
ensuing contest between independent and captive Leftists disrupted every 
party of the Left, including even the Communists, and cracked the pre- 
viously solid People's Front. The independent Leftists won a temporary 
advantage at the beginning of September when General Hodge attempted to 
check illegal activities by suspending three extremist newspapers, by 
issuing warrants for the arrest of several Communist leaders including the 
Secretary General of the Communist Party Pak Heun Yung, and by vigorously 
prosecuting the trial of party members charged with counterfeiting. On 

4 October the Leftist members of the coalition committee were finally 
persuaded to sign a declaration of the Right and the Léft in favor of an 
advisory legislature for South Korea. This act marked the high tide of 
moderate influence among South Korea parties. 


The elections to the Interim Legislative Assembly for South 
Korea, which were held at the end of October, gave an overwhelming ma- 
jority to the Right, and thereby checked the progress of the moderate 
Left. Of the 45 elective seats, 43 were won by Rightists. Although 

& General Hodge undertook to compensate the Left for its defeat at the 

polls by nominating a fair number of Leftists to the 45 appointive seats, 
the policy of cooperation with the Military Government which had brought 
them to defeat at the polls was nonetheless discredited with the Leftists. 
Lyuh Woon Hyung retired from politics after a valedictory speech on 5 
December in which he took the blame for the failure of the unification 
movement and for the continued partition of Korea. Thereafter the Com- 
munists rapidly regained their ascendancy over all remaining sectors of 
the Left. The Socialist Labor Party, which Lyuh founded last November 


* Rhee Syngman, the most ardent exponent of the anti-Soviet and anti- 
Communist feeling of the Right, had been consistently ignored by the 
Military Government since his removal from the chairmanship of the 
Representative Democratic Council in March 1946, because of his per- 
sonal recalcitrance and intense hatred of Soviet Communism. The Demo- 
cratic Council then replaced Rhee with the moderate Rightist, Kim Kiu 
Sik, at the instance of US officials who were trying to clear the air 
for the Joint Commission meeting. After the deposition of Rhee the 
extreme Right continued to campaign for immediate independence and 
against trusteeship, but it was not until recently that this. campaign 
turned against the US Military Government. 


I-9 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


in opposition to the South Korea Labor Party* previously organized by the 
Communists, has steadily lost members to its rival, and has now been 
dissolved. After the Communists the chief beneficiary of the decline of 
the moderate Left has been the extreme Right. Kim Kiu Sik, leader of the 
moderate Right who was associated with Lyuh Woon Hyung on the coalition 
committee, was elected Chairman of the Interim Legislative Assembly, but 
has lost standing because of his deference to the Military Government. 
Control of the Rightist majority of the Assembly now lies with the fol- 
lowers of Rhee Syngman. 


Within little more than a month after its inauguration on 12 
December 1946, the Interim Legislative Assembly of South Korea, proceeded 
to act as the parliament of the Korean nation, in open defiance of both the 
US and Soviet occupation. According to ordinance #118 which contains the 
terms of reference for the Assembly, the interim legislature is charged 
with drafting ordinances on matters concerning the general welfare, and 
with reviewing and confirming all civil service appointments under the 
Military Government above the lowest grades. The assent of the Military 
Governor is required before any enactment of the Assembly can become law. 
Ordinance #118 provides that the Assembly assist the Military Governor in 
working: out a program of political, economic, and social reforms, but 
does not therefore make the legislature a constituent assembly. The US 
authorities have held that the enactment of a universal suffrage law 
which would serve as the basis for elections to a second and more repre- 
sentative legislature was the first task of the Assembly. The Assembly, 
however, has given priority in its deliberations to the enactment of a 
constitution and to the Koreanization of the administration. In its 
proceedings to date the Interim Legislative Assembly has tended to dis- 
regard the existence of the US Military Government in South Korea as well 
as the Soviet regime in North Korea, and has claimed to represent the 
entire Korean people. By thus generally following the line laid down 
by Rhee Syngman the Assembly has repeatedly come into open conflict with 
the US authorities in South Korea. 


* Last July, shortly after the Leftist parties in North Korea were 
united in the North Korean Labor Party, a similar organization was 
launched in the South. The Communist Party since that time has oper- 
ated under the cover of the South Korean Labor Party, a disguise which 
may have been adopted because of the discredit reflected on the Com- 
munist Party by the counterfeit trial. A change of tacties seems to 
have followed the change of names. The severe reprisals of: the Mili- 
tary Government agitators and the overwhelming defeat of the Leftists 
in the elections to the South Korean Interim Legislative Assembly 
appear to have persuaded the Communists that the time for overt opposi- 
tion had passed. At present the Communists seem to be working under- 
ground and trying to consolidate their position within the Korean Labor 
movement. They are active in the All Korean Council of Labor Unions, 
which represents the Leftist elements in South Korean labor, and have 
also established contact with international labor through the World 
Federation of Trade Unions. 


[=10 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
/ SECRET 


Far from giving the US Military Government the popular support it 

was seeking, the legislature has fomented hostility between General Hodge 
- and the parties of the Right. This growing disaffection of the Rightists 

is the most portentous development in South Korean politics since the 
beginning of the occupation. Heretofore the US authorities could rely on 
the Right, whatever their troubles with the Left. Throughout the agitation 
over the US-sponsored Left-Right unification movement last fall and summer 
the Right was quiet. At the height of the strikes and riots which con- 
stituted the "October offensive" of the Communists against the Military 
Government, the US authorities had the assistance of Rightists in preserving 
order. The Rightists seemed committed to support the US primarily because 
of their antipathy to the USSR. 


The publication on 1] January 1947, of General Hodge's letter of 
24 December to the Soviet Commander in North Korea was the signal for the 
rebellion of the Right. In this letter General Hodge agreed in principle 
that continued opposition to the Moscow Decision would constitute a basis 
for the exclusion, by mutual agreement between the US and the USSR, of 
groups from consultation with the Joint Commission in forming a provisional 
government. Anti-trusteeship sentiment immediately flared up in South 
Korea. A call to arms had just previously been issued by Rhee Syngman and 
Kim Koo proclaiming that the time had come for Koreans to face martyrdom 
in their struggle for independence. An outbreak of violence from the Right 
was expected in the US Zone toward the middle of January 1947. Although a 
Rightist insurrection has not materialized, a revolt against the US occupa- 
tion has nonetheless occurred in the Interim Legislative Assembly. In spite 
@ of the opposition of Kim Kiu Sik, a resolution condemning General Hodge for 
his recent concessions to the USSR was introduced in the Assembly on 
14 January 1947. The Chairman, Kim Kiu Sik, delayed a decision by adjourning 
the Assembly for five days. General Hodge took advantage of the respite in 
order to argue personally with the members of the Assembly against the 
resolution, but the motion was carried as soon as the session resumed on 
20 January. The vote taken in the name of the Korean Nation was 44 to 1 in 
favor of the resolution, with complete abstention by the Left. The coali- 
tion committee which originally sponsored the Assembly is now under fire from 
both Right and Left, while Kim Kiu Sik's position at the head of an Assembly 
which he cannot control has become almost untenable. The centrist group 
(moderates of Left and Right) which was organized to support US policy in 
South Korea has apparently disintegrated, leaving the US Military Government 
more isolated than at any time since the beginning of the occupation. The 
extreme Rightists control the overt political structure in the US Zone, while 
the Leftists are attempting primarily by covert means to obstruct democratic 
progress and to discredit the US Military Government. 


I-11 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


SECTION IT 


ECONOMIC SITUATION 


1. Genesis of the Present Economic System 


Historically possessing a localized agricultural economy, Korea, 
was originally exploited by the Japanese in a forty-year period of domi- 
nation as the "granary" of the Japanese Empire. Agricultural exploitation 
continued throughout most of this period, but with the development of Japan's 
plans for Asiatic expansion during the 1930's, Japanese capital and tech- 

“ nology were assigned to Korea to build an industrial superstructure for war- 
time use. The basis for Korean industrial development was the peninsula's | 
abundant supply of water power, its resources of iron ore and anthracite 
coal, and its proximity to the bituminous coal resources of North China and 
Manchuria. 


The policies followed by Japan in exploitation of the Korean 
economy have a direct bearing upon Korea's present economic plight. The 
peninsula was developed not as a self-sustaining economic unit, but as an 
integral part of the Japanese Empire. Development and expansion of industry 
was carried out in terms of its wartime potential, and many Korean factories 
and mines were heavily subsidised by the Japanese and therefore could not 
be expected to be operated as peace-time ventures. Agriculturally and 

r industrially, Korea was operated as a business for Japan's financial and 
material gain, with little regard for the welfare of the Korean people. 
Native Koreans were not trained in technology to any significant extent, 

and Korean industry was almost completely dependent upon Japan for managerial 

| talent, capital equipment and technical experience. Moreover, in the later 

stages of World War II, Japanese exploitation was attended by wholesale 

waste and despoliation of Korea's agricultural and industrial assets. 


Korea thus emerged from the War with a nearly prostrate economy; 
its soil and forests seriously impoverished; its industry, transportation 
and communications in an acute state of deterioration and obsolescence; its 
financial structure nearly destroyed by the unrestrained flood of currency 
issued by the Japanese prior to the surrender. The bulk of Korea's foreign 
trade, which had been carried on with Japan, disappeared practically over- 
night. 


2. Description of Present Economic System 


The immediate post-war problem of preventing disease and unrest, 
and the longer-range problem of rehabilitating the Korean economy, have 
been compounded by arbitrary division of the peninsula into Soviet and US 
Zones. As indicated by the following description of Korea's economic 
structure, the hydro-electric power facilities, chemical (particularly 
fertilizer), metal and mining industries of the North form a much-needed 
complement of the agriculture and textile industry that dominate the eco- 

@ nomic pattern of southern Korea. , 


II-l SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


a. Agriculture and Fisheries 


Agriculture, on which over 70% of Korea's working population de- 
pends for a livelihood, is built around the production of food and con- 
stitutes a dominant political and economic force in the life of Korea's 
masses. 


Korea's agricultural economy is characterized by a relatively 
small area under cultivation (about 20% of total area), small farm units 
(averaging less than 4 acres per family in 1938), widespread farm tenancy, 
and poor quality soil requiring liberal applications of fertilizers. Farm- 
ing methods, similar to those prevailing in other Far Eastern countries, 
place emphasis upon human labor employing relatively crude farming imple- 
ments. The amount of cultivated land did not increase significantly during 
the period of Japanese control, but with the partial completion of exten- 
sive irrigation projects, fully 25% of all cultivated area in Korea had 
been irrigated by the outbreak of war. 


Rice, grown principally in southern Korea, is by far the most. \ 
important food product, but Korea also produces sizable quantities of 
vegetables and grains (the latter comprising the main staple of North 
Korea's food consumption). 


Eastern standards both zones probably could attain self-sufficiency in food 
output, and possibly export certain foods in small quantity. Pre-war agri- 
cultural food production, supplemented by an active fisheries industry, | 
compared roughly in areal distribution with Korea's population: approximate- : 
ly one-third in the North and two-thirds in the South. The substantial pre- / 
war exports of food from Korea to Japan are not a reliable index of Korea's 
future export capabilities since such exports were effected largely at the 
expense of an adequate food diet for the Korean people. In addition, the 
marked population increase in recent years has greatly expanded Korea's , 
local food requirements. 


Under conditions more favorable than those now prevailing, by Far \ 


Korea's fishing industry, which ranked sixth in pre-war world fish 
production, provided a small but essential part of native food requirements, 
fertilizers and fish oils for local use, and a substantial volume of exports 
to Japan before and during the war. Fully 10% (by value) of Korea's total 
exports to Japan in 1939 consisted of fish and other marine products. Main- 
tenance and repair of Korean fishing craft and gear was almost wholly neg- 
lected by the Japanese during the war years, and production since V-J Day 
has been far below earlier levels. With a relatively small expenditure, 
however, the existing shortages of equipment could be alleviated and fishing 
could be restored to its position as one of Korea's major export industries. 

Non-~food crops, chiefly cotton and tobacco, utilize only a small 
percentage of Korea's cultivated area, but, in the past, supplied a large 
part of the raw materials for the country's light industry, particularly in 
the southern zone. As in all Far Eastern countries suffering from food and 


II-2 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


\ 


commodity shortages and inflation, non-food production in Korea has been 4 


cut sharply by the diversion of farming effort to food crops. 


Favorable conditions that could lead to a substantial revival of 
agricultural production would include, in the first instance, an adequate 
supply of fertilizers to southern Korea (such supplies must be imported as 
long as the Soviets continue to withhold fertilizer surpluses manufactured 
in the North) and rehabilitation of Korea's badly run-down transportation 
system. Longer-range measures are also needed: reforestation, flood con- 
trol, extension of acreage under cultivation, and completion of irrigation 
projects that were started by the Japanese. Any agricultural revival of 


permanence, finally, depends in part upon a reform of the feudalistic land- : 


holding system, in order to promote farmer incentive. To date Soviet land 
reform efforts in the northern zone have been largely nullified in effect 
by the levy of excessive farm taxes, and land reform in the South is still ; 
in the planning stage. : ‘ 


b. Natural Resources 


With the exception of water power--the country's most important 
natural asset--Korea .is not richly endowed with natural resources. Most 
of its mineral wealth and water power, moreover, is located in the northern 
zone. 


Between 80% and 90% of Korea's hydro-electric power is generated 
by plants in North Korea. These plants, constituting the major source of 
power supply to the entire peninsula, distribute power over an integrated 
grid system developed by the Japanese. The whole electric power complex in 
Korea, including the comparatively small hydro- and thermal-electric power 
capacity in South Korea, suffers from a lack of maintenance, replacement 
parts and technicians. In their present condition, the power plants are 
incapable of supporting any substantial increase in consumer demand. The 
situation in the South is the more precarious since there is no guarantee 
that the Soviet-controlled zone will be willing or able to continue supply- 
ing the southern area with power, even in the limited quantities now being 
delivered. 


Korea possesses coal reserves estimated at nearly two billion 
tons, largely in the northern zone, but three-quarters of these reserves 
consist of low-quality anthracite, and the balance of lignite and brown 
coal. Good quality bituminous coal had to be brought in from Japan, North 
China and Manchuria to supply Korea's rail system and much of its heavy and 

-light industry. Likewise coking coal for the production of iron and steel 
and coal for gas manufacture had to be largely imported. As an integral 
part of. the Japanese Empire, Korea obtained a large part of its bituminous 
imports from North China, Manchuria and Sakhalin, but shipments from these 
areas are now largely cut off. Even if Korea returned to its war-time 
coal production level of 7,600,000 tons per year (1944), and received 
larger imports of bituminous coal from Japan than are currently arriving, 
a coal supply problem of serious proportions would still exist. 


ee, eas) eee 


II-3 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


~~ 


Dec 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


Iron ore resources, also largely concentrated in North Korea, com- 
prise an estimated 20 million tons of medium-grade and practically unlimited 
reserves of low-grade ores. The war-time production rate of 3,400,000 tons 
(1944) substantially exceeded iron ore requirements of Korea's own iron and 
steel industry. During the war, Korea was a major supplier of tungsten for 
Japan and of molybdenum for the entire Far East, drawing on its sizable re- 
serves of ferro-alloy metals both in the North and South. For Korea to re- 
gain its position as an important exporter of ores and ferro-alloy metals, 
much of the mining equipment and machinery, now badly run-down, must be 
restored or replaced. 


Other metallic and mineral reserves, located mainly in North Korea, 
inelude relatively large quantities of aluminous shales, and one of the 
world's largest concentrations of magnesite ores. The aluminous shale, how- 
ever, appears to be of inferior quality; it is noteworthy that the two large 
alumina-aluminum plants which the Japanese erected in North Korea before the 
war_were designed to use aluminous shale imported from Manchuria. /Production 
from Korea's magnesite deposits, which jumped from 35,000 tons in 1937 to 
nearly 400,000 tons in 1944, contributed materially to Japan's output of 
furnace brick (vital to the iron and steel industry) and of metallic mag- 
nesium. The country's magnesite reserves, which complement the much larger 
reserves in Manchuria, could be further developed into one of the major com- 
ponents of the area's peace-time or military economic potential. 


Korea's gold resources, widely distributed throughout both North 
and South Korea, were increasingly exploited by the Japanese before the 
war, with rapidly rising subsidies by the Government-General for this pur- 
pose. Gold production for the entire country rose from 5 metric tons in 
1925 to 28 metric tons in 1938, the latter figure having a value of 106 
million won (yen) or about US $30 million. More than 70% of the production 
in pre-war years originated in North Korea. Part of Korea's gold output 
was exported to Japan in the form of ores; the greater part, it is believed, 
was utilized in Korea as currency reserves or transferred to Japan in the 
form of specie and bullion. During the war, the Japanese concentrated 
their mining effort on more strategic materials, and stripped most Korean 
gold mines of their machinery. Under US occupation, rehabilitation of 
South Korea's gold installations is already in progress, and gold produc- 
tion in the US zone is expected to reach about 50% of the pre-war level by 
1950. For the country as a whole, gold resources will eventually regain 
their position as an important component in Korea's balance of payments. 


Both North and South Korea formerly had extensive forest lands. 
While North Korea is still substantially stocked with timber, much of South 
Korea's forest land has been laid waste, largely due to heavy overcutting 
to provide fuel. Rapid deforestation resulting in serious soil erosion 
contributed materially to the heavy floods in South Korea during 1946, the 
worst in twenty years. The resultant shortage of wooden railroad ties and 
building materials, in the absence of replenishment from the Soviet Zone, 
has greatly retarded restoration of South Korean transportation and con- 
struction operations. 


11-4 SECRET 


lassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


c. Industry 


The bulk of Korea's heavier industry, led by the manufacture of 
iron, steel, chemical fertilizers and cement, is concentrated in North Korea, 
close to the sources of iron ore, hydro-electric power, locally-mined coal 
(mainly anthracite), and the bituminous coal formerly imported from North 
China and Manchuria. 


As developed by the Japanese, the Korean iron and steel industry 
was not completely integrated: Korea's war-time output of iron ore was 
greater than the in-put of its pig iron furnaces; pig iron output substan- 
tially exceeded the requirements of its steel plant, which in turn manu- 
factured ingots in a volume considerably larger than Korea's rolling mills 
could handle. The remaining surpluses of ore, iron, and steel represented an 
important series of exports, feeding Japan's own war industry. Such products 
might figure significantly in Korea's future trade pattern, but not until 
such time as bituminous coal of good coking quality becomes readily available 
from abroad. 


Practically all of Korea's chemical manufacturing plant, its 
largest pre-war industry, is north of the 38th parallel. The large nitro- 
genous fertilizer installations, readily convertible to the manufacture of 
explosives, took the lead in Japan's war-time development of Korea's in- 
dustrial potential. Since the end of the war, almost no commercial ferti- 
lizers have been made available to South Korea from the northern zone, 
partly due to the presently poor condition of the fertilizer industry itself, 
and partly due to Soviet unwillingness to make fertilizer accessible on any- 
thing but a barter basis in exchange for food products that South Korea could 
not afford to supply. 


The remainder of Korea's industrial structure is more evenly di- 
vided between the US and Soviet Zones, with the larger plants generally 
located in the vicinity of leading urban industrial centers and ports. Pro- 
duction of machinery and rolling stock is concentrated around Seoul and Pusan 
in South Korea. In the consumers goods category, the manufacture of textiles 
predominates, with the larger cotton spinning and weaving plants centered 
about these same two cities. The synthetic (primarily rayon) fiber plants, 
on the other hand, are located mainly in northern cities. The two zonal 
capitals, Seoul and P'yong-yang, contain the major portions of Korea's food 
processing plant. ; 


In general, Korea has never been highly industrialized, except in 
heavy industry, and even in the late stages of Japanese development, its 
machinery and consumers goods industries fell considerably short of supply- 
ing the domestic requirements. Moreover, many of its plants, as well as some 
of its mines, were uneconomical ventures, heavily subsidized by the Japanese 
as war-time expedients. 


II-5 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


d. Transportation 


Serious war-time neglect, acute shortages of replacement rails, 
ties, construction materials, and of bituminous coal, have severely impaired 
the operability of Korea's 4000-mile rail system, upon which most of the 
country's economy is dependent. By early 1947, rail transportation was in a 
state of near paralysis in North Korea, where the lack of operable locomotives 
and rolling stock has multiplied the effects of other shortages. Rail condi- 
tions in South Korea, though far from adequate, are believed to be better 
than in the North. 


The country's 14,000 miles of highways, serving as essential feeders 
to the cities and railroads, must also be rehabilitated, having been left to 
deteriorate during the war years. In South Korea, such essential construction 
items as asphalt and cement must be imported in quantity, owing to the con- 
centration of Korea's own asphalt and cement plants north of the 38th 
parallel. In the Soviet zone, according to reports dated May 1947 , hi gh- 
ways are being well maintained and an extensive road repair program, using 
compulsory labor, has been instituted. 


e. Finance 


During the period of Japanese control, the entire financial struc- 
ture of Korea was dominated by Japanese public and private interests. Most 
of the paid-up capital of the Government-controlled Bank of Chosen, Korea's 
bank of issue, was Japanese-owned, as were the ordinary commercial banks. 

In the corporate structure of Korea, investment and managerial participa- 
tion by Koreans was likewise relatively small, nearly 90% of the corpora- 
tions being Japanese-owned. 


The Japanese provided part of the capital for development and ex- 
“ploitation of Korean industry and agriculture through the Bank of Chosen, 
and the large Chosen Industrial Bank. Much of the financial and technical 
assistance, however, was furnished through a "national policy" organization 
known as the Oriental Development Company, which developed into owner and 
operator of hundreds of Korean enterprises in the fields of agriculture, 
mining, industry and transportation. 


In addition to extensive control over private and semi-public 
components of Korea's economy, the Japanese Government exercised monopo- 
listic control, within the framework of the Korean Government-General, 
over such profitable commodities as salt, ginseng (a medical herb), 
tobacco and narcotics, and over two important services: communications 
and transportation. Revenues from and expenditures by these monopolies, 
in fact, were far the most prominent items in the Korean national budget. 
Their predominance in Korea's fiscal structure emphasizes the degree to 
which the country's economy was managed as a Japanese business. For ex- 
ample, in 1936--a typical pre-war year--fully 53% of all budgetary revenues 
were scheduled to be derived from the "revenue-producing agencies" that 
operated the monopolies, and expenditures of these same agencies were 


II-6 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


budgeted at 41% of total outlays. In that year, taxes were expected to 
yield no more than 25% of total revenues, Korea's people being too poor 
to support a complicated tax structure or heavier tax burden. 


With the termination of the War, all public and private Japanese 
title to property in South Korea, including physical installations, finan- 
cial investments and controls, was vested in the US Military Government. 
Custody of Japanese assets in North Korea was likewise placed in official 
hands, presumably in the Soviet-backed People's Committees. Thus, the 
governing bodies in both North and South Korea are in at least temporary 
possession of a major portion of Korea's economic wealth, which is being 
employed as the main support for the fiscal structure of those zones. Dis- 
position of this wealth, a problem that may be reserved for the future 
Korean Government, presents numerous difficulties. Relatively few Koreans 
possess the managerial qualifications or the ready capital to take over 
ex-Japanese properties, and there is a real danger that such wealth, if 
offered to the public, may become concentrated in the hands of a powerful 
native economic minority, or of private foreign interests. 


While the occupation authorities in both North and South Korea 
have had at their command, since V-J Day, a substantial proportion of the 
country's means and instruments of production and service, the financial 
yield of such assets has fallen far short of bridging the gap between 
other available revenues and the total expenditures in those zones. The . 
former Japanese assets and Japanese-controlled monopolies in Korea repre- 
sent investments in economic enterprises that are in a serious state of 
disrepair; moreover, they are critically short of technical help, stocks 
of raw materials, and replacement parts. In both zones, the short-fall in 
revenues has required heavy issues of new currency, thereby greatly acceler- 
ating the inflationary trend already in evidence during the war years. As 
a partial indication of this trend: in contrast to a Bank of Chosen note 
issue for all of Korea amounting to 580 million won (yen) at the end of 
1940 and 8,680 million shortly after V-J Day*, the volume of notes issued 
by the Bank of Chosen in South Korea alone had jumped to 18,200 million 
won by late January 1947. 


In the forefront of expenditures in South Korea that have com- 
pelled the US Military Government to resort to heavy deficit financing 
are such major items as (a) heavy administrative costs, (b) allocations 
to lower levels of government, and (c) grants and subsidies to industry 
and agriculture. Comparable expenditures in the Soviet zone have prob- 
ably been much smaller, but the post-war inflation in North Korea thus 
far has been no less drastic. The Soviet troops’ practice of "living 
off the land" has produced much the same inflationary results as deficit 
financing, since this practice constitutes a direct drain upon the al- 
ready marginal supply of foods and other necessities. 


“More than 4,000 million of this was issued by the Japanese in the 
last 24 months of war. 


II-7 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


In an environment of rapidly expanding note issues and growing 
commodity shortage, widespread profiteering and reported counterfeiting 
have added significantly to the inflationary upswing by undermining 
public confidence in Korea's currency. 


The Korean monetary unit, in the absence of free and active 
interchange of foods and services with other countries, has the nature 
of a controlled currency with only nominal foreign exchange value. In 
contrast to the pre-war open market exchange rate of about 3.5 yen to 
one US dollar (same as the Japanese yen), the military conversion rate 
for South Korea was set at 50 to 1 by SCAP in March 1947. Even the 
latter rate fails to reflect the full post-war depreciation of the Korean 
unit; in terms of relative purchasing power, its real value probably lies 
between 100 and 200 to one US dollar. Within Korea, moreover, the unit 
has little or no metallic backing, since most of the Bank of Chosen's 
reserves of cash, gold and silver were taken by Japan during the war, 
and replaced by Japanese bonds and notes. 


f. International Trade 


Korea's current foreign trade pattern bears little resemblance 
to that of the pre-war and war-time period. Nevertheless, an examination 
of Korean trade during the latter years of Japanese control discloses the 
serious problems that the country is due to face even if unification and 
some degree of rehabilitation are achieved. 


“™- Korea's foreign trade for 1939, a year that can be regarded as 
a median between pre-war and war years, shows two characteristics typical 
of the broad period of Japanese domination: (a) an exceptionally heavy 
reliance upon trade with Japan, which in 1939 took 73% of Korea's total 
exports by value and supplied 89% of Korea's imports; and (b) a large 
unfavorable balance of trade--imports were 39% larger than exports in 
1939. Although shipments of manufacturers such as chemicals, cement, 
iron and steel products, increased during the 1930's and early war years, 
Korea's exports were preponderantly "natural" commodities: agricultural, 
mineral, forest and marine products. The country's imports were largely 
Japanese-manufactured consumers good (textiles, clothing, beverages) and 
machinery, as well as bituminous coal and other minerals. 


In addition to a substantial unfavorable trade balance, Korea 
also was a net debtor for interest, insurance, dividend payments and 
freight (Korea has never had a merchant marine of significance). The 
resulting debit balance in Korea's balance of payments position was 
characteristically offset by Japanese capital investments in Korea, and 
by the shipment of Korean-mined gold to Japan. 


For the next few years at least, a period when Korea's economy 
will be sustained and to some degree rehabilitated by commodity imports 


and capitalization provided almost entirely by the US, Korea's balance 
of payments position hardly merits discussion in terms of a "normal" 


- TI-8 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


pattern of foreign trade and capital flow. In the absence of unification, 
North Korea is not expected to produce any substantial surpluses of com- 
modities for export. South Korean exports, led by minerals and marine 
products, probably will not exceed US $46 million in the three years 
1948-1950; in the same three years, it is estimated that a grant-in-aid 
of US $540 million will be required for the rehabilitation of South 
Korea's agriculture, industry and transportation. 


Even after unification and substantial rehabilitation are a- 
chieved, Korea still faces an adjustment period characterized by an un- 
favorable balance of trade and net outpayments on the non-trade items, 
both only partially offset by gold exports. Sizable shipments of food, 
formerly one of the key Korean exports, will not be forthcoming for many 
years unless attained (as formerly) at the expense of native food con- 
sumption. Nevertheless the long-range outlook is not necessarily bleak, 
particularly if Korea follows an interim program of "austerity" in its 
purchases abroad. Korea's natural resources provide many opportunities 
for continuing capital investment. From a balance of payments standpoint, 
a revival of transportation in the North Pacific (e.g., between Japan and 
northern Asia) would benefit Korea. 


3. Current Situation in the Soviet Zone 


Soviet policy in Korea is directed toward the establishment of a 
state politically subordinate to the USSR at a minimum cost to the USSR's 
own scanty Far Eastern resources. Soviet economic policy is, therefore, 
the reorientation of Korea toward the USSR while developing Korean indus- 
trial and agricultural self-suffiency. In realizing this aim, the USSR 
thus far appears to have failed; despite greater industrial resources and 
a better balanced economy, the economic situation is now more acute in the 
Soviet Zone than in the US Zone. According to early 1947 reports, infla- 
tion is greater and the food shortage more pressing in the North than in 
the South. This reverses the relative situation of the two zones pre- 
vailing in 1946. Current food prices are reported to be 50% higher in the 
North. Unlike the US, the USSR has not imported food into Korea but rather 
shipped it out, while the Soviet forces of occupation have pursued their 
customary practice of living off the land. 


Industry in North Korea is operating at less than 25% of war- 
time levels. Although the industrial equipment of the Soviet Zone has 
not been dismantled like that of Manchuria (excepting possibly the north- 
eastern provinces), the rehabilitation of industry has been retarded by 
the disruption of pre-war trade relations. The general breakdown of the 
railroad transportation system has put an additional obstacle in the way 
of industrial recovery. The USSR has been unable to improve these con- 
ditions even to furnishing coal from Sakhalin. Fuel supply on which North 
Koreans. were counting has not materialized, and consequently the Soviet 
Zone is as destitute of industrial products as it is of foodstuffs. Kim 
Il Sung, chairman of the north Korean People's Committee, has described 
the adverse factors affecting the economic reconstruction of the Soviet 


Ii-9 SECRET 


_ Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


Zone as follows: "(a) Division of Korea and difficulties of readjusting 
an economy which was developed to serve Japanese rather than Korean 
interests; (b) Shortages of raw materials, especially bituminous coal, 
which forces Korea to solicit assistance from Russia; (c) Shortages of 
technicians and backward state of technological development; (d) Lack of 
capital and (e) Greatest of all, lack of spirit of reconstruction, which 
obstructs elimination of selfish profiteers." 


Thus, notwithstanding Communist emphasis on material prosperity, 
by its own admission the Soviet regime in North Korea has had greater 
success politically than economically. Although the USSR is unable to 
increase the output of the Korean economy, it has nonetheless secured 
complete control of the means of production. Conquest has facilitated the 
task of revolution in Korea, for the bulk of the capital of the country 
was in the hands of Japanese at the time of the surrender. By confis- 
cating this property and turning it over to the People's Committees, the 
Soviets have accomplished a quick conversion of Korean industry to state 
ownership. Private property has been completely eradicated from a large 
section of the economy. Credit, communications, transportation and heavy 
industry are controlled by the People's Committees. Only agriculture and 
the handicrafts have escaped the process of socialization. 


Soviet policy of land reform provides additional evidence of 
political motivation. The USSR gained much good will among Korean farmers 
a few months after the beginning of the occupation by distributing the 
holdings of the big Japanese and Korean landlords among their tenants. 

The benefit of this agrarian reform, which affected the ownership of 
2,471,000 acres, was, however, diminished by the exactions of the regime. 
The People's Committees are now demanding as much from the farmers as did 
the former landlords, though by a different claim. After the successful 
levy of a 25% tax on the fall harvest of 1946, the Soviets announced the 
imposition of an additional contribution of 25% on the same crop. This 
second phase of the collection program appears to have aroused the re- 
sentment of the rural population, and as a consequence, the government has 
been encountering considerable passive resistance in its crop collection 
program. (The tenants of the US Zone generally pay an over-all rent of 
25% of their produce. ) 


4. Current Situation in the US Zone 


Economic stagnation has aggravated political discontent in both 
zones of Korea, and food has become the primary economic concern of all 
Koreans. In the US Zone, the food shortage provoked severe rice riots in 
the fall of 1946 during the wave of Leftist agitation against the Mili- 
tary Government. Acute want has now been relieved and owing to the timely 
imposition of marketing controls, the collection and distribution of grain 
is proceeding more smoothly this year than last, with the result that the 
people of South Korea are at present receiving their best rations ‘since the 
end of the war. In spite of this improvement, the lack of fertilizer in 
the US Zone hampers the restoration of agriculture to pre-war levels of 


II-10 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


production, necessitating a continuation of large-scale imports of food 
from abroad for an estimated three years. The Military Government has 
calculated that South Korea will require monthly shipments of at least 
40,000 metric tons of grains and leguminous products until the summer 
harvest in July 1947. Since this quantity represents half the ration 
requirements of the non-self-supplying population, the restoration of 
agricultural self-sufficiency is one of the principal factors in the 
economic stabilization of South Korea. In the course of the next three 
years, the Military Government expects the increase of domestic produc- 
tion to reduce the total value of yearly food shipments from US $49 million 
in 1948 to US $6 million in 1950. 


The financial situation of South Korea has been improving since 
early 1947. The Bank of Chosen note issue for the US Zone, which was at 
a peak of 18,200 million won in January 1947, had dropped back to 17,300 
million by the end of May. Prices have also shown a trend toward stabili- 
zation, accompanying some increase in the supply of food and consumers 
goods, particularly textiles. It is anticipated that the budgetary deficit 
of the Military Government, which amounted to about 5,000 million won for 
the 1946-47. fiscal year (ending 31 March 1947), will not be greatly in ex- 
cess of 3,000 million for 1947-48. Moreover, extra-budgetary expenditures, 
such as outlays for food collection and distribution, will probably be 
substantially less in the current year. All of these conditions are re- 
flections of a more stabilized economic situation in South Korea. However, 
any real economic revival in the US Zone depends in large part on increased 
imports, which must be supplied principally by foreign loans or grants. 


The only credit which South Korea has so far received for recon- 
struction is an FLC loan of $25,000,000, which the Military Government ob- 
tained in August 1945. This loan was promptly attacked by the Leftists as 
an attempt to reduce Korea to colonial status by making the country a 
dumping ground for surplus US equipment. However, there has been no such 
outery at the current grant-in-aid proposal. The Korean public may have 
come to a realization of the country's dependence on imports, since a 
shortage of raw materials threatened to close nearly all factories in the 
US Zone during the first half of 1947. The cotton industry has recently 
afforded a good illustration of the precarious condition of the Korean 
economy in this respect. The food shortage of the past year has caused 
farmers to plant half of the former cotton acreage in grain crops, there- 
by sharply reducing the cotton supply to the South Korean mills. Since 
the textile industry is the most important of the light industries which 
characterize the economy of the US Zone, a shut-down in the manufacture 
of cotton goods would gravely retard recovery of the whole area. The 
Military Government has now succeeded in obtaining 8,400 bales of cotton 
from USCC stocks in Japan, and the cotton shortage in South Korea has 
accordingly been alleviated, but the textile crisis has nonetheless 
demonstrated the urgency of a long-range import program. 


Agricultural production needs the incentive of consumer goods, 
while a rise of the industrial output depends in turn on a better diet 


II-1ll SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


for the workers. The Korean economy seems therefore to be caught in a 
vicious circle which only a strong infusion of imported raw materials 

and capital equipment can break. Raw materials such as cotton for 
clothing and fertilizer for the farms have first priority because of 

the extreme indigence of the country. Failing unification, capital 
equipment is also needed to build in South Korea some of those essential 
industries which already exist in the North. Although South Korea ob- 
viously cannot compete industrially with the North, the US Zone can, with 
initial outside assistance, expect to develop a sound economy. Eventually 
it may have a food surplus which would serve as the basis for revived 
trade either with Japan or with North Korea. A limited amount of barter 
is currently going on between the US Zone and China, but it seems doubt- 
ful that China will in the foreseeable future be able to supply South 
Korea with the industrial goods it needs. Korea's economic future would 
therefore seem still to be bound up with that of Japan. 


Meanwhile, the prolonged partition of Korea has made an interim 
economic "prevention of disease and unrest" program totally inadequate 
for the purpose of establishing a balanced and stable economy in South 
Korea. An adequate program is now dependent on substantial long-term 
foreign assistance (such as the grant-in-aid program recently proposed 
by the US Administration to the Congress). Such assistance could be 
used to help (1) Transform Southern Korea from a food deficit to a food 
surplus area, thus improving the low nutritional standard of the Koreans 
and providing some exports to pay for necessary imports; (2) Increase the 
supply of consumer goods by restarting local industries; (3) Decrease the 
dependence of the southern zone upon the northern for electrical power; 
(4) Contribute to the financial stability of Southern Korea by increasing 
production; (5) Facilitate the training of Korean technicians and the 
eradication of illiteracy, two serious deficiencies resulting from the 
Japanese policy of monopolizing with their own nationals nearly all 
positions requiring technical skill and of keeping the Koreans a servile 
people. 


JI-12 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


SECTION III 


MILITARY SITUATION 


The numerous contrasts between the US and Soviet occupations 
in Korea can finally be reduced to a difference in their use of force. 
In the last analysis both governments rely on coercion to maintain their 
authority, but coercion in the US Zone is a sanction for law, while in 
the Soviet Zone it is an ever-ready means of persuasion. Whereas the US 
Military Government attempts to win the consent of the governed by argu- 
ment and reason, the Soviets require compliance by the threat of violence. 
These differences are real and not merely nominal as shown by the fact 
that the US maintains a relatively small number of troops and a relatively 
high degree of freedom of expression, in comparison with the USSR. 


The US Zone in Korea contains about two-thirds of the population 
and is occupied by a force of less than 50,000 US troops, assisted by a 
native constabulary of approximately 5,000 and a coast guard of slightly 
more than 1,000. With only about one-third of the Korean population in 
its zone, the USSR is reported to have at its disposal 68,000 Soviet 
troops, augmented by a native force, potentially 500,000 strong, whose 
effective strength is undetermined but which has been estimated at 
200,000 (People's Army: 125,000; Security Forces: 75,000). This Korean 
army under Soviet control is based on a technically voluntary system to 
@ recruit all males between 17 and 25 years of age and built around a core 
of approximately 75,000 well-trained members of the special police and 
the Korean Volunteer Army which served prior to the Japanese surrender 
under the orders of the Yenan Independence Alliance (the former Com- 
munist-sponsored government in exile). Chinese Communist troops are 
also known to have crossed the border from Manchuria and are reported 
to be taking part in the training of the new Korean army of the Soviets. 
The majority of these Chinese Communists are probably Koreans of the 
Volunteer Army who campaigned together with the Chinese 8th Route Army 
in Manchuria. The rest of the Chinese Communist troops whose presence 
has been reported from North Korea are presumably in transit from one 
area of the Manchurian front to the other. 


The military preponderance of the Soviets is a standing threat 
to the US occupation in South Korea, and General Hodge has felt obliged 
on occasion to issue warnings of a possible attack across the 38th 
parallel. Although no attack has yet occurred, the Soviets could pre- 
sumably overrun the whole peninsula, so that the US position in South 
Korea is in a military sense distinctly precarious. General Hodge's 
effectives of approximately 50,000 troops are divided roughly as follows: 
1,300 air, 27,000 ground, 13,000 service personnel and 7,000 miscellaneous. 
A Soviet invasion of South Korea, however, would mean war, and there is 
consequently little prospect that it will be tried in the near future. 
The only present danger to the US occupation in South Korea would seem 


ITI-1l SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


to lie in a widespread revolt which would draw US troops away from the 
border permitting mass infiltration from the Soviet Zone or an invasion 
by the native Army. 


The US occupation has so far enjoyed the cooperation of the 
majority of the population in the maintenance of order in the South. 
The Military Government has nonetheless been the target of unrelenting 
propaganda and occasional uprisings on the part of the extreme Left. 
Recently the extreme Right has also shown a disposition towards violence. 
Rightist violence seems, however, to be rather the product of temporary 
exasperation than part of a concerted plan of disruption. In spite of 
all Rhee Syngman's manifestoes and proclamations the Rightists have yet 
to produce any disorders such as characterized the October offensive 
of the Communists last year. Fear of Communist control and a conserva- 
tive preference for order appear to moderate the Rightists even in their 
wildest outbursts against the US Military Government. The US authorities 
have consequently depended on the Rightists for support even while com- 
batting the leadership of such extremists as Rhee Syngman. 


The Korean government in exile at Chungking organized an army 
known as the Kwang Bok Army which the US could eventually remobilize if 
ever Soviet pressure against South Korea became excessive. So far the US 
authorities have given no recognition to this Rightist Army, which is not 
needed for defense and which could only serve to intimidate the Left. 
Instead of mustering a partisan army, the Military Government has en- 
couraged a youth movement. The Korean National Youth Movement which was 
launched with official approval in January of this year now numbers approx- 
imately 30,000 members. Although the movement is not affiliated with any 
party, it is led by Rightists and has undertaken, as part of its program 
of public service, to "dispel the falsehoods planted by Russian Communists." 
The Moscow radio has already denounced the organization as Fascist, but in 
this connection it is interesting to note that the USSR also boasts of 
having at its command in North Korea a Democratic Union of Youth with a 
membership of 1,300,000. 


Korea's military potential is limited to the contributions it 
can make as an ally, willingly or unwillingly. These contributions consist 
of manpower; strategic location; two major warm-water ports; abundant hydro- 
electric power; limited surpluses of iron, tungsten, wood, low-grade coal, 
and possibly food; chemicals; and a transportation system which connects the 
complementary industrial establishments of Korea, Manchuria, the Soviet Far 
East, and Japan. The extent to which Korean manpower, resources and facil- 
ities can be exploited was well illustrated by the considerable war aid Japan 
was able to obtain from Korea at the expense of the Koreans themselves. How- 
ever, owing to the present state of the economy as a result of exploitation, 
first by the Japanese and subsequently by joint occupation forces, the im- 
mediate war potential of Korea is negligible. 


IlI-2 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


SECTION IV 
STRATEGIC CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING US SECURITY 


Korea's current significance to the security of the United States 
lies in the fact that it is the critical point of contact between the US and 
the Soviet Union in the Far East. Basically, however, Korea is important 
to the US because Soviet control of this strategically situated peninsula 
would jeopardize US political aims for China and Japan, thus threatening 
US security measures throughout the Pacific. 


Under joint US-Soviet occupation Korea is one of the most un- 
stable political compounds in the Far East. The prevailing uncertainty 
of its political future is attributable mainly to the prolonged delay 
in the execution of the Moscow Decision, which has kept Korea divided 
and subject to dual foreign control. Instead of the former occasional 
and superficial contacts with the West, the peninsula has now been opened 
to the influence of the two chief world powers. Unlike the Japanese rule 
which isolated the peninsula and bound the people together in common 
resistance to a single regime, thereby fortifying Korean national unity, 
the US and Soviet occupations have divided the Koreans and opposed them 
to each other. Thus, subsequent to joint US-Soviet withdrawal, the Korean 
political vacuum will be filled by a polity which has a foreign orientation 
toward either US democracy or Soviet Communism. 


The emergence of a unified Korea under Soviet domination would 
constitute a serious political defeat for the US. In China, where US 
prestige has declined since V-J Day, the attendant moral lift to the Communists 
and the demoralizing effect on moderates would make very difficult the 
unification of China under a government favorably disposed toward the Western 
Powers. In Japan, any democratic government nurtured by the US during its 
period of occupation would, in the post-occupation period, face an external 
situation posing an additional threat to its stability at a time when internal 
problems taxed its powers most heavily. The effect in China and Japan of a 
communistic Korea would in turn have repercussions in the whole of southeast 
Asia, the Philippines, and Indonesia. 


The political confusion which has retarded Korea's unification 
and independence has also hindered its economic recovery. Partition has 
been the chief cause of economic disruption because of the interdependence 
of the two zones of occupation. Economic stability is ultimately de- 
pendent on unification. Meanwhile, grants-in-aid from foreign sources 
are required. Hence the extent to which the US is willing and able to 
meet Korean economic requirements will figure importantly in US ability 
to attain its political objectives. 


While both the US and the USSR are directly concerned with the 
political future of Korea, the long-term military considerations are of 


Iv-l SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


lesser importance to US security than to that of the USSR. The USSR has 


indicated that the security of the Siberian frontier is a principal ob- 
jective of Soviet policy in its relations with Korea, and that for this 
reason Korea must be established as a "friendly" (i.e., subservient) 
state. A hostile power in Korea would be in a position to cut off 
Vladivostok from Port Arthur and intercept communications generally 
throughout Manchuria, whereas a friendly power in the peninsula would 
protect the Soviet flank and contribute to Soviet capabilities for of- 
fensive operations in northeast Asia. While US troops occupy Japan the 
US has a vital interest in maintaining a position in Korea which will 
protect its position in Japan and North China. In the post-occupation 
period, even though the US might still desire to deny the peninsula to 
a potential enemy of Japan or China, Korea's indefensible position 
against attack from the north makes it of less interest to the US, 
since the US first line of defense near Korea is the US Pacific Islands 
Defense Base System. 


Iv-2 
Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


SECTION V 


PROBABLE FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS AFFECTING US SECURITY 


The joint US-Soviet occupation of Korea potentially could 
become a signal instance of Russo-American post-war cooperation or the 
failure of the most clear-cut of all joint US-Soviet undertakings. 

While the USSR, for reasons of international prestige, will not permit 

a failure to implement the Moscow Decision to be directly attributable 
to Soviet actions, the former alternative will remain unattainable so 
long as the Soviets insist upon a "friendly" (i.e., subservient) govern- 
ment in Korea. 


In these circumstances the USSR has intentionally created and 
prolonged a political stalemate, while consolidating its control of North 
Korea and disrupting by all possible means US efforts toward democracy 
and stability in South Korea. In pursuing these delaying tactics, the 
Soviets have been relying upcen the possibility that the US public would 
lose interest in Korea and eventually be unwilling to continue to bear 
the cost of military occupation and economic assistance, particularly 
‘since the USSR is convinced that the US faces economic depression which 
will force a drastic reduction in the role of the US in international 
affairs. Future Soviet actions, therefore, depend upon their estimate 
of (a) the stability of the Communist regime in North Korea and its 
ability to control the entire country in the event of US-Soviet withdrawal, 
and (b) the sincerity and practicability of the US desire to maintain its 
program of democratization, economic aid, and eventual independence for 
Korea. 


The USSR probably estimates that the Communist regime in 
North Korea is now sufficiently stable, particularly since it is backed 
by an effective Korean army. On the other hand, the progress made in 
the US Zone toward the establishment of a basis for the formation of 
a democratic provisional Korean government and the implication of the 
Truman doctrine that the US intends, at least for the immediate future, 
to continue its support of Korean aspirations for independence, may have 
caused the USSR to decide that pegeongerscn® of the present stalemate 
might work to its disadvantage. 


Under these conditions and in view of renewed US pressure, the 
USSR has agreed to reconvene the Joint Commission on terms acceptable to 
the US. This ostensibly could lead to one of three major developments: 

a. Agreement on means of implementing the Moscow Decision. 

b. A new stalemate and a public proposal by the USSR that the 


occupying powers withdraw completely from Korea and grant immediate Korean 
independence. 


v-1 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


c. Unilateral withdrawal of Soviet troops, in event of a dead- 
lock in the Joint Commission, or after the establishment of the Provisional 
Government. The primary Soviet purpose in accepting any of these alterna- 
tives would be to obtain US withdrawal from Korea in the belief that the 
Communists could either immediately or ultimately gain control of any 


provisional Korean Government. 


The USSR may well be willing to make concessions in the Joint 
Commission or subsequently on a governmental level in order to reach 
agreement on implementing the Moscow Decision, if it estimated that the 
Korean Communists were capable of quickly gaining control of a national 
Korean Provisional Government, or of eventually bringing Korea within 
the Soviet orbit during or after the termination of the trusteeship. This 
is a more likely development than a proposal that the US and USSR withdraw 
completely and grant immediate Korean independence, since the latter would 
require agreement on revision of the Moscow Decision by the US, USSR, 
United Kingdom, and China. A four-power meeting for this purpose would 
inevitably involve a complete airing of Soviet repressive actions in North 
Korea. Also, the other powers would not accept such a revision without 
accompanying safeguards for the maintenance of Korea as a sovereign and 
independent state, which would be unacceptable to the USSR. 


The third alternative of a unilateral withdrawal of Soviet troops 
in the event of an impasse in the Joint Commission is a dangerous possi- 
bility, since the USSR might count upon the propaganda value of this move 
to embarrass the US or to force a withdrawal of US troops which would leave 
South Korea open to penetration by the Communists backed by the North 
Korean army. This, however, would not offer the USSR full propaganda 
value, since it would still be participating in the Joint Commission or 
in trusteeship over Korea. The USSR therefore is not likely to adopt this 
course unless it believes that the concessions required under the first 
alternative would nullify the possibility of ultimate Communist control of 
Korea. This third alternative, however, is potentially the most dangerous 
to US security, since it would present the US with a dilemma of maintaining 
its forces unilaterally in South Korea, or the withdrawal of these forces 
before proper safeguards for democracy are established. 


In any case, the USSR will continue its efforts to place on other 
signatories the onus for any failure to implement the Moscow Decision. The 
Soviets, however, probably hope to resolve the Korean issue in their favor 
without reference to the United Nations, where world opinion would be fo- 
cused upon Soviet activities in North Korea. 


Should the US and the USSR reconcile their differences and thus 
remove the barrier to the unification of Korea, national unity under a 
representative strong central government would still be threatened by the 
potentialities for serious political internecine strife: A national pro- 
visional assembly in which representation was accorded on the basis of 
population theoretically would be controlled by the two-thirds of Korea's 
population residing in the US Zone. Under present conditions, however, 


V-2 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


this control could be established and maintained only if the numerous 
political parties of the South were willing to form a Rightist dominated 
coalition to oppose the solid Communist dominated Leftist bloc which the 
Northern zone would presumably return. The North will return a solid Com- 
munist bloc, except under the unlikely circumstances that the elections for 
the provisional government could be freely conducted. While the urgency of 
preventing Communist control of a national provisional government may well 
lead initially to a coalition of the Southern political parties based on 
mutually acceptable compromises among the party leaders, the long-range out- 
look for control of the central government by majority representation is far 
less encouraging. The basic factors militating against the maintenance of a 
truly independent democratic regime are: (1) the cohesive bloc from the 
North which can be expected to follow the well-known Communist tactics of 
weakening the opposition and which is supported by the Soviet-trained North 
Korean army; (2) the existence. of a small Communist-dominated Leftist group 
in the South which can be expected to work closely with the Northern Com- 
munist bloc; (3) the personal feuds among party leaders of the South which 
transcend any differences in party platforms; (4) the initial establishment 
of a central government based on compromises worked out in Joint US-Soviet 
negotiations; and (5) the characteristic apathy of the electorate. 


Of these factors, the one which is likely to be mest decisive is 
the first. Unless the formation of a national government can be accom- 


plished with safeguards against Communist tactics, it will be impossible 
to establish Korea as a sovereign and independent state. 


V-3 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


APPENDIX "A" 
TOPOGRAPHY 


Korea has well-defined natural frontiers. The northern third 
of the peninsula is occupied by a mass of rough mountains, separated from 
Manchuria by the deep valleys of the Yalu River in the west and the Tumen 
in the east. Southward from these mountains a long range of lower mountains 
extends to the tip of the peninsula, keeping close to the east coast. From 
this range, spurs branch westward to the Yellow Sea, and the principal low- 
lands of the country where most of the agriculture is concentrated lie be- 
tween these spurs. The mountains on the northern border are rugged, steep, 
and generally unfavorable for movement, but the eastern and western slopes 
of the mass and the lower valleys of the Yalu and the Tumen provide possi- 
bilities for entering the country from the north. 


: In the northwest the Yalu, Korea's longest river which forms 

part of the Manchurian boundary, is navigable by small craft for about 

350 miles up from its mouth on the Yellow Sea although its channel is 
encumbered by many and sand banks in its lower course and by rapids 
upstream. At Sinuiju, the major city on the northern border, located in 
the northwest corner just across the Yalu from Antung, there is a double 
railroad bridge across the river, linking Korea's major railway, which runs 
along the west coast to Seoul and then across the peninsula to Pusan, with 
the Asia Express, a branch line of the South Manchurian Railroad. There is 
another rail bridge at Supong-dong across the great dam built by the Japa- 
nese, and a third at Manpojin farther up the Yalu, designed to tap the 
Tungpientao iron ore region in Manchuria. These points are tied to the 
Korean railway system by branch lines, and are also connected by a road 
extending from Sinuiju up the Yalu valley along the Manchurian border. 
South from Sinuiju stretches one of Korea's main highways, which parallels 
the railroad to Seoul and Pusan. This north-south orientation of major 
transportation arteries reflects the country's recent role as a stepping 
stone from Japan to the continent and would favor penetration from the 
north. 


In the northeast, Korea borders the Maritime Province of the 
USSR for the last ten miles of the Tumen River, the upper course of which 
forms part of the Manchurian boundary. The river is navigable by small 
craft for about fifty miles from its mouth on the Sea of Japan, and its 
valley is winding, steep-sided, and generally unfavorable for movement. 
Since the Russian occupation of North Korea, an excellent overland road 
from Chongjin to Vladivostok has been developed out of the 4th and 5th 
class roads which previously served as the only avenue between Korea and 
Siberia. This new road also provides a good link between the USSR and the 
rail and highway network of Korea, which connects the major northeastern 
ports with Pusan on the south coast, with Seoul in the southwest, and with 
Sinuiju in the northwest. Two rail lines and two first class roads cross 


A-1 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


the backbone of the peninsula, connecting Wonsan and the northeast more 
directly with P'yong-yang and Seoul, the country's major commercial centers. 
The transportation facilities in the northeast, as in the northwest, were 
developed primarily as a funnel whereby Japan could supply her war needs; 
consequently branch lines connect this sector also with Manchuria. 


The east coast of Korea, which borders the Sea of Japan, is 
fairly regular with small beach-bordered pocket valleys separated from one 
another and from the interior by steep mountains and swift streams. Six 
of the ten principal ports of Korea are located along this coast -- Unggi, 
Najin, Ch'ongjin, Hungnam, Wonsan, and Songjin -- all of them north of the 
38th parallel. All are tied in with the peninsular rail and highway net- 
work which is linked to the Manchurian system by two branch lines in the 
northeast across the Tumen and to Vladivostok by the recently improved 
road from Ch'ongjin. There are in addition numerous secondary ports and 
landings on this coast, which has for the most part clear approaches and 
fairly moderate tides. 


In contrast, the south coast, which borders the Korea Strait, 
is highly irregular with alternate beach-fringed lowlands and rocky head- 
lands and numerous off-lying islands, rocks, reefs, and shoals. Broad 
drying mud flats and sand bars and very high tides add to the difficulty 
of approach. However, Korea's most vital port and third largest city, 
Pusan, is located at the eastern corner of this coast. It was the key 
trans-shipment point on the fastest water and land route from Japan to 
Manchuria. At Pusan the freight and passenger ferry from Shimonoseki, 
120 miles across the Korea Strait, met the main Korean railroad, a double- 
track line. which crosses the peninsula to Seoul, runs north through P'yong- 
yang to Sinuiju in the northwest, and there connects with the line to 
Mukden. A first-class highway parallels the railroad from Pusan to 
Sinuiju. Other ports, developed by the Japanese as military and naval 
bases, are located along the southern coast and are connected with the 
Pusan-Seoul route by road or branch rail lines. 


The west coast, which borders the Yellow Sea, is similar to 
the south coast in its irregularity and perils to navigation. There 
are, however, numerous good harbors and landing places. Seoul, by far 
the largest and most important city in Korea, lies at the eastern edge 
of a lowland which extends for about twenty miles ‘from the coast, and 
is connected by rail and highway with Inch'on which serves as its port. 
Seoul is the principal railway and road hub of the peninsula and the 
key to control of the peninsula. P'yong-yang, the second largest city 
of Korea, now being used by the Soviets as their headquarters, is an- 
other lowland city about 120 miles northwest of Seoul, connected by 
rail and highway with the port of Chinnamp'o. The third important west 
coast harbor is the estuary Kum-gang River which serves the ports of 
Kunsan and Changhang-ni. These cities, like the other principal ports, 
are tied in with the peninsular transportation system. 


A~e SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


Korea's only other boundary, the 38th parallel, is a purely 
arbitrary dividing line with no physiographic delineation. It crosses 
the peninsula at about its broadest point, a distance of approximately 
190 miles, and isolates a sub-peninsula to the west which according to 
present arrangements, can be reached only by weekly American convoys 
passing through the Soviet Zone. It cuts across Haeju Bay on the west 
coast, separating the city of Heaju in the Soviet Zone from some of its 
port facilities at Yongdangp'o on the US side of the parallel. The top- 
ography along the parallel varies from tidal flats, low hills, and 
intensively cultivated valleys in the west to higher hills and ridges 
descending to a narrow coastal strip in the east. It is crossed by 181] 
small cart roads, 104 country roads probably passable throughout the 
year, 15 all-weather provincial roads, and 8 better class roads. The 
two good highways running northeast and northwest from Seoul to Wonsan 
and P'yong-yang respectively and six railroad lines furnish modern 
transport across the boundary. It is in no sense a natural barrier and 
the general north-south orientation of the eOunEE s transportation 
facilities favors passage across it. 


A-3 SECRET 


‘Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


APPENDIX ."B" 


POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS AND STATISTICS 


Population Characteristics 


The Koreans are a Mongoloid people racially akin to the Chi- 
nese and Japanese with whom they have also strong cultural affinities. 
United by religion, language and tradition, the Korean people are ex- 
tremely homogeneous, but a few differences may be noted between the in- 
habitants of the northern and southern sections of the peninsula. Al- 
though the Koreans as a people are considered to be sensitive and vio- 
lent and xenophobes to an alarming degree, the southerners appear to be 
slightly more docile and phlegmatic than the northerners. As a result 
of Japanese domination, Koreans are likely to complain to authority 
rather than to face problems squarely on their own. 


Confucian morality has for centuries exercised a strong influ- 
ence on the development of Korean manners and customs. The other great 
cultural influence has been Buddhism, which has at present almost died 
out in the peninsula. Christianity, on the other hand, has developed 
into a great expansive force. The Christian churches have not only 
brought Western civilization to the common people; they have also served 
as centers of resistance to Japanese and, more recently, Soviet oppres- 
sion. At present Korea is undergoing a cultural crisis as all other 
countries of the Orient. The outcome of the current conflict between 
Western and Eastern cultures is difficult to predict, but it seems likely 
that Korea will eventually adopt either Communism or Christianity. It 
is doubtful that Korea can long maintain its Confucian heritage in the 
modern world. 


The great mass of the people in villages and on farms appears 
to be extremely apathetic on national issues. Barely 35% of the popu- 
lation is literate, and the 71% of the people who are engaged in .agri- 
cultural pursuits lead a very narrow local existence. 


Population Statistics 


The population of Korea is usually referred to in round num- 
bers as 30 million, of which roughly 20 million are considered to be in 
the US Zone and 10 million in the Soviet Zone. The South Korean Interim 
Legislative Assembly has claimed to speak for 30 million Koreans. Sta- 
tistics issued in August 1946 by the National Economic Board of Korea and 
by the Departments of Labor and Commerce in the headquarters of the US 
Army Military Government in Korea, however, do not bear out the usual 
estimates. The official figures which are the basis for the plans and 
programs of the Military Government give Korea a total population of 


B-1 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


roughly 25 million, to which nearly 2 million should be added for the 
Koreans who have been repatriated since August 1946. This revised total 
of 27 million is still considerably below the accepted figure of 30 mil- 
lion. Throughout this paper the statistics furnished by various sources 
are used in the context to which they apply. The following tables, based 
on the official estimates of the US Army Military Government in Korea, 
may serve, however, as a check on any other estimates hereinafter adduced: 


1. POPULATION: ALL KOREA 


1940 1944 1950 (AMG Forecast) 
Total 23 , 547,000 25,120,000* 28,948,000 
Male 11,839,000 12,521,000 14,694,000 
Female 11,708,000 12,599,000 14,254,000 


2. POPULATION: NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA 
(These figures are estimates derived by adding the population of the 
provinces south of the 38th parallel and those north of the 38th par- 
allel. In the case of the three provinces both north and south of 
the parallel, the division of population was estimated by using the 
percentage distribution shown in the 1944 emergency census undertaken 
by the Government-General of Korea. ) 


1940 1944 1950 
North 8,518,600 9,171,000 10,569,000 
South 15,028,400 15,949,000 18,379,000 


3. NUMBER OF PERSONS AGE 15-59 


1940 1944 1950 (AMG Forecast) 
Total 12,281,831 12,687,000 ° 15,348,000 
Male 6,152,882 6,268, 400 7,812,000 
Female 6,128,949 6,418,600 7,536,000 


4. NUMBER OF PERSONS AGE 15-59: 


NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA 


(Estimates: see Table 2.) 
1940 1944 1950 (based on AMG 
Forecast ) 
NORTH 
Total 4,506,000 4,714,000 5,436,000 
Male 2,513,000 2,410,000 2,783,000 
Female 2,193,000 2,504,000 2,653,000 
SOUTH 
Total 7,776,000 7,973,000 9,912,000 
Male 3,840,000 3,858,000 5,029,000 
Female 3,936,000 4,115,000 4,883,000 


* This figure does not include 1,890,000 Koreans who have been repatri- 


ated since the surrender. 


B~2 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


| 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET 


5. INDUSTRIAL DISTRIBUTION OF OCCUPIED PERSONS: NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA 

r The 1940 Census is the only one which gives distribution of "occupied" 
persons by industrial classes. Adjustment of figures for 1940 were made 
by AMG to obtain figures for 1944. Estimates of the total number of 
persons in each occupation for South Korea were obtained by adding the 
figures for provinces south of the 38th parallel. In the case of the 3 
provinces split by the parallel it was arbitrarily assumed that the occu- 
pational distribution south of 38° followed the population distribution as 
shown in the 1944 census. The same procedure was used in obtaining totals 
for North Korea. 


1944 (Adjusted from 1940 Census) 
% of Total % of Total 


Occupation South North Total Occupied Population 
Agriculture 4,651,100 2,553,900 7,205,000 TOae 28.9 
Fishing 117,100 73,900 191,000 1.9 0.8 
Mining 78, 400 144,600 223,000 eae 0.9 
Manufacturing 372,900 327,100 700,000 ‘6.8 2.8 
Commerce 303, 700 132,300 436,000 4.3 1.8 
Communications 87,100 79,900 167,000 Lee? 0.7 
Public Services 
and Professions 183,600 101,400 285 , O00 2.8 lez 
Others 588, 900 393,100 982,000 9.6 3.9 
& Occupied 6,382,800 3,806,200 10,189,000 100.0 41.0 
Unoccupied 9,481,600 5,372,400 14,854,000 = 59.0 
TOTAL 15,864,400 9,178,600 25,043,000 --- 100.0 
Zonal 
Distribution 63% 37% 100% --- 100% 
4 
B-3 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 
SECRET © 


APPENDIX ."C" 


CHRONOLOGY 


1122 B.C. - Traditional date of founding of kingdom of Chosun, 
with capital at Pyongyang by Kija, uncle of and counselor 
to the last of the Shang Emperors, who welded all of 
north Korea into a state ruled by his dynasty for 929 
years. 


57 B.C. - Beginning of Korean recorded history with formation of 
kingdom of Silla out of three states in the south. At 
about same time Chumong, from far north, established 
kingdom of Kokuyo with Pyongyang as capital, and 
another smaller kingdom, Pakche, was developed in 
southwest. 


4th Century A.D. - Introduction of Buddhism into Korea and consequent 
influx of Chinese ideas and culture. With approval 
and aid of China, Silla overcame Kokuyo and Pakche 
and united whole country into single realm. 


918 - Formation of new Wang dynasty in state of Koryu by one 
of Silla's generals. State wholly Buddhist, dominated 
by priestcraft, easy prey for Mongols who invaded 
peninsula in 1231, demanded a fleet to assist in in-~ 
vasion of Japan, and then left country to its own 
devices. During much of Mongol period Korea was 
governed directly by Mongol prefects. 


1392 Yi Taicho drove out Jap pirates from Korean coastal 
towns, then inaugurated dynasty which endured until 
modern times. Buddhism banned and renascence of 


Korean culture ensued. 


1592 


Japanese usurper, Hideyoshi, swept up the peninsula to 
Pyongyang with an army of 300,000 with matchlocks. His 
communications were cut and his supporting fleet deflated 
by Admiral Yi Sun Sin, inventor of the tortoise boat 
(iron-clad war vessel). Hideyoshi dies and with aid of 
Chinese, Koreans drive Japanese out of Korea. 


Manchu invasion. Manchus left country after its con- 
quest, asking only annual tribute which was more like an 
exchange of gifts than badge of servitude. 


1627 


1871 


American flotilla under Rear Admiral Rogers sent to 
repeat Commodore Perry's exploit of Japan. Fired on 
by Koreans. American force landed, stormed fort from 
which firing came, and then sailed away. 


C-1 : SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


1876 


1883 


1884 


1894 


1895 


1905 


1910 


1919 


1944 


1945 


1946 


1947 


SECRET 
Japanese treaty recognizing Korean independence. 


American treaty with Korea, containing clause obli- 
gating each signatory to aid each other diplomatically 
in case of danger to either. All other major treaty 
powers followed suit. 


Abortive attempt of Jap-assisted Korean group to effect 
coup d'etat. put down by existing government with aid 
of Chinese who successfully reasserted suzerainty 

of China until 1894. 


Sino-Japanese War; elimination of Chinese influence in 
Korea. 


Murder of Korean Queen by Japanese in attempt to assure 
economic and political cooperation. Retreat of King 
and Crown Prince to Russian Legation: beginning of 
Russian-Japanese rivalry in Korea. 


Russo-Japanese War; Treaty of Portsmouth whereby 
assumption of authority over Korea by Japan was 
countenanced by US; establishment of Japanese 
protectorate. 


Abdication of Korean Emperor and annexation of Korea 
to Jap Empire. 


Declaration of Independence from Jap oppression and 
establishment of provisional government by small group 
of patriots in Shanghai. 


Establishment of Korean Provisional Government at 
Chungking for all parties. 


Defeat of Japanese in World War II; beginning of joint 
US-USSR occupation; Moscow Decision assuring Korea her 
independence after formation of democratic government 
to function under four-power trusteeship of not more 


‘than a five-year duration. 


Joint Commission meets in Seoul March 20 to consult 
with representatives of democratic parties in forma- 
tion of provisional government. Commission adjourns 
May 6 without agreement. 


Joint Commission reconvenes on May 21. 


C-2 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Doo Bong 


KIM, 


KIM, 


Place and date 
of birth: 


Residence: 
Education: 
Occupation: 


Political 
Affiliation: 


Religion: 


Remarks: 


Il Sawng 


Place and date 
of birth: 


Residence: 


Education: 


Occupation: 


SECRET 


APPENDIX D 


BIOGRAPHICAL DATA 


South Kyunsang Province in 1892. 


Pyengyang, Pyengan Namdo 
In 1915 attended Pai Chai High School 
Politician 


Member of the Independence Union, North Korea 
Peoples Committee, Democratic Peoples Fighting 
Line (Front), and North Korea Peoples Political 
Committee. 


Not ascertained. 


Engaged in activities of Liberation Movement of 
Peoples Party for about four years. In 1919 served 
as part-time teacher at Seoul Posung and Himoon 
Middle Schools. From 1924 to 1928 engaged in 
activities as an executive member of Daihan Inde- 
pendence Political Party. From 1928 to 1932 served 
as a chief clerk of "Society for the Study of Revo- 
lutionary Theory of Various Parties." From 1935 to 
1937 organized "Chosun Peoples Revolutionary Party." 
In 1942, appointed as a first Chairman of "Independence 
Union." February, 1946, appointed Chief of "General 
Affairs Bureau" of Democratic Peoples Fighting Line 
(Front), Preparatory Commission, and is Vice Chair- 
man of North Korea Peoples Committee. 


Location not ascertained. 1913. 


Pyengyang, Pyengan Namdo 


Attended Chinese School and graduated from Soviet 
Military Academy. 


Politician 


D-1 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


KIM, Il Sawng (continued ) 


Political 
Affiliation: 


Religion: 


Remarks: 


Kyu Sik 


KIM, 


Place and date of 
of birth: 


Residence: 


Education: 


Occupation: 


Political 
Affiliation: 


Religion: 


Remarks: 


SECRET 


Member of Chosun Communist Party of North Korea, of 
which he is General Secretary. Chairman of North 
Korea Peoples Committee. 


Not ascertained. 


It is said that Kim, I] Sawng is a son of Kim, Kwang 
Sur, although his actual identity is still in doubt. 
He is said to have rendered distinguished service 
during the period of hostilities between Germany and 
Soviet Russia. It is also said that the men who gave 
much difficulty to the Japanese Army in Chintao Dis- 
trict, was his father KIM, Kwang Sur. This has not 
been definitely established. He is the leading Korean 
Communist figure in North Korea and has been built up by 
Soviet propaganda to be a national hero. Was recently 
decorated by Stalin for his good work on behalf of 
Korean independence and his resistance against the 
Japanese. Chairman, North Korea People's Committee 
and Chairman, Central Committee, North Korean Labor 
Party. 


Location not ascertained. 1882, 


Seoul 


Graduated with honors from Roanoke, Virginia, College 
in 1903, and won a scholarship for M. A. work at 
Princeton University, but returned to Korea in 1904. 


Politician and educator. 


Is Vice Chairman of the Representative Democratic 
Council of South Korea. 


Not ascertained. 


Went to China in 1913 and was naturalized as a 

Chinese citizen in January, 1916. He was chief dele- 
gate and presented Korea's case at the Paris Peace Con- 
gerence in 1919. Was "Minister of Foreign Affairs" and 
later "Minister of Education" of the Provisional Govern- 
ment. About 1920 he returned to the United States and 
organized, and became chairman of, the Korean Commission 
to Europe and America, with Headauarters in Washington, 


D-2 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


KIM, Kyu Sik (continued) 


Remarks: 
(continued ) 


KIM, Koo 


Place and date 
of birth: 


Residence: 
Occupation: 
Political 
Affiliation: 
Religion: 


Remarks: 


PAK, Heun Yung 


Place and date 
of birth: 


SECRET 


D. C. He represented Korea at the Far Eastern 
Revolutionary Congress, Moscow, in 1922 and in 
Siberia in 1923-24. Returned to China and engaged 
in educational work, holding professorships at 
Futuun University and Chungshan University, 

Wuchang and at Paiyang University, Tientsin. Was 
President of Williams College in Shanghai. Was 
Foreign Secretary of the Provisional Government 
and returned to Korea on November 23, 1945. Speaks 
eight languages fluently. Is considered one of the 
leading Korean statesmen, and has shown more dis- 
position to assume a moderate political policy 
towards the left-wing than other leading conserva- 
tive Koreans. Chairman, South Korean Legislative 
Assembly. ° 


Not ascertained. 1877. 


Not ascertained. 
Politician. 


Member of the Representative Democratic Council of 
South Korea and leader in the National Association 
for the Rapid Realization of the Korean Independence. 


Not ascertained. 


Was a leader in the Provisional Government at Chung= 
king; was police inspector general of the Provisional 
Government in Shanghai. He replaced Dr. Rhee as 
president of the Provisional Government in exile in 
1943. Returned to Korea on November 23, 1945. Is 
now one of the most influential and powerful conserva- 
tive Korean leaders, although because of his intran- 
Ssigent stand against the left-wing groups, he has 
damaged his prestige as a leader to some degree. 
Chairman, Independence Party; Chairman, Anti-trustee- 
ship Committee organized in January 1947. 


Kyunggi Do in 1899. 


D-3 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


PAK, Heun Yung (continued ) 
Residence: 
Occupation: 
edeation: 

Political 
Affiliation: 
Religion: 


Remarks: 


LYUH, Woon Hyung 


Place and 
date of birth: 


Residence: 


Education: 


Occupation: 


Political 
Affiliation: 


SECRET 


Not ascertained. 
Politician 
Graduated from Lenin University, Moscow. 


Leader and official spokesman of Korean Communist 
Party. One of four chairmen, Executive Committee, 
Democratic Peoples Front. 


Not ascertained. 


Went to Shanghai in 1920 and joined Chinese Young 
Men's Communist Party. Became director of that 
organization in 1925. Imprisoned in Shanghai by 
Japanese police for Communist activities, 1925-27. 
Was in Russia from 1927 to 1930. Returned to 
Shanghai in 1930 and was again jailed by Japanese 
police from 1931 until 1936. Came to Korea and 
organized Communist underground movement, 1936. 
Foreign press of 26 October, 1945 quoted him as 
saying both Russia and United States should leave 
Korea to Koreans. Leader of Korean Communist 
Party. Met with sixty Communist sympathizers on 
19 September 1945 to unify different groups in the 
interest of Korean Communist Party. Played impor- 
tant role in the organization of the Korean Labor 
Party. In September 1946 US Military Government 
issued warrant for his arrest on charge of foment-’ 
ing disorder and endangering the forces of occu- 
pation. Still at large. One of six chairmen of 
Democratic People's Front organized January 1947. 


Yang Pyong, Kyonggi Do in 1886. 


s 


Seoul 

Attended Waseda University, Tokyo, and Yenching 
University, Peking. Is a graduate of Presbyterian 
Theological Seminary, Pyengyang. 


Political leader. 


Member of the Korean Peoples Republic and Peoples 
Party. 


D-4 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


LYUH, Woon Hyung (continued ) 


Religion: 


Remarks: 


RHEE, Syngman 


Place and date 
of birth: 


Residence: 


Education: 


: Occupation: 


Christian 


Was connected with the Korean Independence Movement 
in 1919 and with the student movements in 1926 and 
1929. Was an original member and Vice Minister of 
"Foreign Affairs" of the Korean Provisional Govern- 
ment, and in 1932 was kidnapped by the Japanese and 
brought to Korea, where he was imprisoned for sev- 
eral years. Was editor of the Central Daily News 
published in Seoul and was imprisoned for a term be- 
cause of his activities in this connection. After 
August 15, 1945, was requested by the Japanese to 
set up the National Founding Preparation Committee 
which later became the Korean Peoples Republic, of 
which he is now head. Was selected as one of the 
four chairmen for the Central Committee of the 
Democratic Peoples Front (left wing) in February, 
1946. He is considered a moderate left-wing leader 
of great influence and popularity, both because of 
his personality and because of his consistent efforts 
to attain Korean independence. He is now believed 
to be, to some extent, under the influence of the 
Communists and has opposed, in general, efforts at 
uniting the left and right-wing groups. Although 
undoubtedly a leader of significant power, he has 
shown a tendency to vacillate and is regarded by 
some as a political opportunist. He was invited to 
represent his party on the Representative Demo- 
cratic Council of South Korea, but refused to par- 
ticipate. He is an excellent speaker, patriotic in 
his views, and a scholar of considerable accomplish- 
ment, but appears reluctant to take a firm public 
stand on current leading issues. One of six chair- 
men of Democratic People's Front organized January 
1947. 


Not ascertained. 1876. 


Seoul 


M.A. from Harvard University; PH.D. from Princeton 
University. 


Politician 


D-5 SECRET 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


_ Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


RHEE, Syngman (continued } 


Political 
Affiliation: 


Religion: 


Remarks: 


Member of the National Association for the Rapid 
Realization of Korean Independence. 


Christian 


Published Korea's first daily newspaper from 1897 to 
1904. Took a prominent part in the Independence 
Movement in 1919. President of the Korean Provi- 
sional Government from 1941 to 1942. Resided in the 
United States from 1919 to 1945 and was a peace del- 
egate at Philadelphia on April 5, 1919. Representa- 
tive of the Korean Provisional Government, Washington, 
D.C., 1942. Chairman of the Korean Commission in 
Washington, 1944. Was appointed an advisor to the 

San Francisco Conference, March 4, 1945. Returned to 
Korea in October, 1945. Is a leader of the National 
Association for the Rapid Realization of Korean In- 
dependence and former Chairman of the Democratic 
Council of South Korea. Rhee is probably the best- 
known figure in Korean politics today: is considered 
an arch conservative and implacably anti-communist; 

is widely respected by most Koreans although, because 
of his participation in partisan politics, is believed 
to have damaged his original prestige to a significant 
extent. He is strictly anti-Soviet. Because of his 
opposition to left-wing elements, it is somewhat 
doubtful whether he would be of sufficient stature 

to be a successful candidate as head of the new Korean 
state. 


D-6 SECRET: 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


= 


iar 


Cities of Ist Importance —. 


Cities of 2nd Importance 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Aungnam 


fA 
f 


RELIEF AND TERRAIN REGIONS 


ALTITUDE TINTS 


3000 notes 9840. feos 
2900 6560” 
1000 3280 
300 964 

100 328 
oO oO 


m++— INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY. ~ 
wp 0 9 » @ » » » 


—-—— PROVINCIAL BOUNDARY 


‘STATUTE MILES 


eel 


Conde 3g 


ac 


, rae 7 


I 


my KyusHU- F 


at 
id 
My 


ge 
EE 


tn, BPE 


ar 


36 


EG Ew 


9 


) 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


Document No. 00] 


BO. CHANCE in 2 
DIC” oo 
ACI. CL UT™D TO: TS Ss C 
: en, 4 Apr 77 

sie 771 L765 


13 5: DLS. OL, . 


| Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 45] 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


SECRET 


U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
1442—S—1947 


wee Leciassified and Approved For Release 2013/01/29 : CIA-RDP78-01617A001400030001-2 


