_ L SECRET 


ca 
STANDARD FORM NO, 64 ‘ 


Approved For Release soon baa. RDP67-00689A000200200035-9 


Office Memorandum + onvrep states GOVERNMENT 


TO : Assistant Director, R & & DATE:18 February 1943 
FROM : Thief, Far Fast/Pacific Rrench ee ee ee “ 


SUBJECT: Additional information on forth. Korea developments 


1. Confirming our converses tion yesterday afternoon, I gave you this 
summary of recent developments in Norvh Korea fer your use in replying to Geseral 
Wright's inquiry: 
a. On 7 and 8 February, “me North Korean radio at Pyongyang made 

these two announcemenSs in the name of the North Korea People's 
Council (the legislative organ) and Committee (the executive organ): 


(1) The NKP touncil hes completed a draft constitution for: !orea, 
to be adonted by Coumcil in mid=Maroh after ee congider= 
ation anc ciscussiony; i 

(2) Establishment o: the Xerean People's Army was efor iaiaed and 
that Army's demonstration in Pyongyang was described iz 
dramatic, inflammatory language. . ; 


be The above announcements were, on the surface, completely Korcan-= 
inspired; there was no hint. that the USSR had openly engine@red or 
endorsed them. (CIA was fully aware, as witness our current 
reporting and predictions, that these moves were pending and that 
the USSR was pullirg practically all the strings behind scenes.) 
It was believed extremely important that both Army and draft 
constitution applied to Korea as a whole, not just North Korea. 


ce US news corresvondents jumped on the two anhouncements and built 
rather. sensational news items around them. ‘hile we were got 
absolutely sure as of yesterday afternoon, it looked like much 
of their supplementary information and estimates wre eeraed ‘rom 
discussions with Hodge or his: advisers. 


d. According to AP, we pointed out, "broadcasts said the regime would 
one day embrace all Korea, with Seoul as its capital." We asreed 
to the first part of this, although the newsmen were prematers in 
calling ita "regine' since the constitution had not been advupted 
as they olaimed; as to the-referehce to Seoul, we suspected that 
this was an interpolation by the newsmen, 


@. Since tie time of the North Korean announcements, about the only 
reporting on developments. in that zone transmitted by Genera. 
Hodge's establishment wee a-confirmation of the Army demonstrations _ 
in Pyongyang, 26 witnessed by the US liaison officer there. (This 


COROT 51s 


Approved For Release soo bee CRED noper. nono he 


Approved Fer Release 2001/ RDP67-00059A000200200035-9 
errs SECREFr0P 67 000500 
S8CRET 
Qe 


should not be regarded as a reporting deficiency; Hodge's people 
have long been forecasting these developments and both their and 
our estimates have advanced far beyond the present events.) 


2. The following additional information has been received by F&/P since 
the opening of business this morning: 


a According to FBIB, the North Korean radio broadcast the full text 
of the "Draft of provisional constitution of the Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea." The following points are noteworthy: — 


(1) Article 101 reads: "Seoul shall be the capital of the Democratic 
Peoples Republio of Korea. However, pending the formation of 4 
united government, Pyongyang shall be the capital.” 

(2) The framework of the draft constitution, and of the govern-~ 
mental structure provided by it, is completely of Soviet flavor. 
It looks like that cf a miniature Soviet republic. 

(3) There is no territorial limitation in the draft constitution; 
it thus would cover any part of Korea that subsequently is 
incorporated into the "Democratic People's Republic of Korea.” 


be. According to a 16 February telegram from US Political Adviser Jacobs 
in Seoul, Hodge did in fact have an informal press conference with 
US news correspondents. iodge noted as "very significant events" the 
establishment of the. "Peoples Army of Korea" and the publication of 
a "constitution of «11 Korea," and clearly implied that these were 
not in accordance with the spirit or letter of international agree- 
ments. Hodge alse termed "interesting" the constitution's ‘designa~ 
tion of Seoul as the kherean capital. He added, with referdnce to 
the Army, that (a) its creation “has been going on for many months," 
{(b) "we have ample information that this Army is equipped with Soviet 
equipment," and (c) "creation of this Army is certainly a violation 
of the Moscow decision.” 


25X1A 


Captain, USN 
Chief, Far East/Pacific Branch 


FEIP betlbiquer Gobet / RSH/ of 2567 


SSCRET 


ISECR 


Approved For Release 2001/08/28 : CIA-RDP67-00059A000200200035-9 


Ap 


proved Fler Release 2001/08/28 : CIA-RDP67-00Q59A000200200035-9 


Assibtant Director, 2 & E 18 February 1948 
Chief, Far East/Pacifio Branch 


Additional information en North Kerea developments 


+ de Cenfirning our conversation yesterday afterncon, I gave you this 
summary of recent developments in Worth Zorea for your use in replying to General 


Wright's inquiry: 


fe | 


On 7 and 8 February, the North Korean radio at Pyengyaug made 
theae two announcements in the name of the North Korea People's 


Geueil (the legislative organ) and Committee (the exeautive organ): 


be 


a. 


(1) the MKP Council has leted a draft constitution for ores, 

‘tw be adopted by Council] in mid-March after public sonsider- 
ation and digquseien, . a 

(2) Eatablishment of the Korean People's Army was proclaimed and 
that Aray's dqnons tration in Pyongyang was described in 
dramtio, inflammatory language. 


The above announcements were, on the surface, completely Korean- 
iuepireds there waa no hint tha aly engineered or 
endorsed them, (CIA wae fully aware, as witness our ourrent 
reporting and predictions, that these moves wore pending and that 
the USSR was pulling practioally all the strings behind scenes.) 
Xt was believed oxtronely important that both Army and “draft — 
songtitution applied to Kerea as a whole, not just North Korea. 
US news correspondents jumped on the two announcements and built 
rather. spsctienad newa items around them, While we were not 
abeglutely sure ag of yesterday afternoon, it looked ifke much 
ef their supplementary information and estimates were gained from 
@iaquasions with Hedge or his advisers. 


According to AP, we piste out, "broadoasts seid the regime would 
ene day embrace all Korea, with Seoul as its capital.” We agreed 


te the first pert of this, although the newsmen were premature in 


oalling it a “regime” since the constitution had not been adopted 


ae they alaimed; as to the reference to Seoul, we suspected that 


‘¢thia was an interpelation by the newsmen, 


Be 


Ap 


Sinoe the time ef the North Korean announcements, about the only 
reperting on developments in that gone transmitted by General 
Hodge's eptablighment was a confirmation of the Army demonstrations 


in yeng, a8 witnessed by the US liaison officer there. (This 


proved For Release a OrZe -RDP67-00059A000200200035-9 


nae 20 SEGRE 
j Approved Fo#Release 2001/0072e* -RDP67-00059A000200200035-9 


ee 


ehoulé not be regarded ne a reporting deficiency. Hodge ts people 
have tong been farecasti ag these developments and both theif and 
@or estinates have advanced far beyond the preaent events.) 


&, bad pace tae H a“ aha a information has been received by rer dince 


ae 


Be 


inega thie morning: 


peared to FBIB, the Nerth Korean radio broadcast the rut text 
the “Bratt of pravislonet aenstitution of the Bencoratic People's 
ore ef Korea,” The following peints are noteworthy: 


(1) artdele 101 readae "Seoul shell be the capital of the femcoratic 

wife Repiliiio of Korea. However, pending the formation of « 
4 goverment, Pyongyang shall be the capital." 

(2) framework of the draft constitetion, and of the gorern- 
baad wtrusture provided by it, is completely of Soviet flavor. 
St leeks like that of a mindature Soviet pepublic. 

{3} There is no territorial limitation in the draft qersiy ie 
At thue would cover any part of Xorea that subsequently ie 
fnoerporated into the “Demecratic People's Republic of “ores.” 


Aogerding to a 14 February telegram from US Political Adviser Jacobs 
iz Seoul, sb a dia fn feot have an informal press conferenge with 
we qorre carpe #4: Hodge noted as “very significant events" the 
nay vs akment of 


) coples Be | of Kerea™ and the publicgtion of 
ona tution af 411 Korea," olearly Ueplied that thege were 
a 4m ageerdence with the spirit or letter | internations} agree- 
wents, meee alee terned “interesting” the const) tution's losigna- 
tien ef feoul as the Korean capital, He added, with reference to 
the Arey, that (a) ite creation "has been going on for sany months," 
{o) “we Reve ample information that this Aray is equipped with Soviet 
po gre enyel and (a) “creation of thie Army fe certeialy « violation 
the Meacew dedisiou." 25X1A 


See 


.. US 
Ghief, Far Zast/Pacific Branch 


Fele eblbignns Goto [RSH] oot: 2567 


SSCRET 


Approved For Release 200: RERET pops7-000591000200200035-9 


" RESTRICTED CONFIDENTIAL { 
lease 2001/08/28) MCIA-RDPB OOS IREO0 0035-9 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP 


[ TapprovaL [ XX] iwrORMATION [1] signature 
[_TACTION [_] DIRECT REPLY [-__] RETURN 
[comment [TT preparaTion oF RepLy /——! piSPATCH 
[——TTeoncurrence [_] REcomMENDATION [J FILE 


REMARKS: “ew inforvetion on North Korea indicates the 
Pyongyang draft constitution does in fact provide 
that the Korean capital will ultimately be in Seoul. 
You may want to pase this on to. General Wright, 
together witn other data given in paragraph 2 of the 


attached memorandum. oe Le ; fof 
p ! : ae ae we, “ £f &f 
2 Sfiadbkici Fe ppt. Yraght tly 


: Oe ‘ 
Awe LRéieasé-Se04/08/26!: obs aa: : 
_ (LSECRE ipsa Bus00/26» Creep 97 DOUaRCLASSIETED 


