a Pe te . nie . © 
at ee ce RE a tA ee bata PT ee es : : } 
ae She, 7 Songees peer a . Mee : ce oe es - : Bia Sr aoeegannte TAS» i “3? “2 
: ae ‘ a aes ‘ : : * a eee eae . on, oF : 


De classified and d Approved For Release 2013/08/08 8: CIARDPTEO 617A0031001 0001-5 ee 


bec 
$ 
77 
me, 
5. 
4, 
e 
t 


ad “y 
. %:, 2. 


‘@) 
FT 
Z 
war 
Aa 
>. 
al 
Z 
| 
mm 
= 
5 Zz. “i 
‘@) 
m 
> 
@ 
m 
xz 
@) 
~< 


« 

n 

? 

7 

y 

“7 
tom or oMe . 
, remus. etree 


y 
To Tn 


t 
‘ 
ro 


o q we 
west = 2 - ke jl 
ee 8 a = = a » 
«; ar ¥ = = Pa a a 
oS ie é a . 
. - “y 
She ee By ead tree a: : 
a “ : . aC Lee . ‘ 
it 
ve : 
a t 


THE CURRENT ‘SITUATION IN KOREA. ee 


¥ 
5d St 


eT ae = 


a ae hee r . : a. ea an : To :: . ; . _ 


Fe. 


a ‘Ea his docurient has pom. ot ee ee ee Pree 
-.. ‘approved. for. relense through sy eh as ay ee ee 
oe the. HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM ena ee ot ee ye ee 
an, ‘the Central. Intelligence peer: em a ee ee ee a ee ee a 


‘a uty * 7] : os ; B 


"mace QUAI Ee ge PE Le 


ee a ae ae a ee Oa 
ee iar ee a ~,: / Published on- a a. he ee eS e re a5). : 


‘ a a Koa Coe eee 


COPY NO. AS Ss ee eo 
“FOR THE ASSISTANT. DIRECTOR’. thi Rae | 
FOR REPORTS AND ESTIMATES - 0° tee 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


DISSEMINATION NOTICE 


1. This copy of this publication is for the information and use of the recipient 
designated on the front cover and of individuals under the jurisdiction of the recipient’s 
office who require the information for the performance of their official duties. Further 
dissemination elsewhere in the department to other offices which require the informa- 
tion for the performance of official duties may be authorized by the following: 


a. Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Research and Intelligence, for 
the Department of State 


. Director of Intelligence, GS, USA, for the Department of the Army 
. Chief, Naval Intelligence, for the Department of the Navy 
. Director of Intelligence, USAF, for the Department of the Air Force 


. Director of Security and Intelligence, AEC, for the Atomic Energy Com- 
mission 


. Deputy Director for Intelligence, Joint Staff, for the Joint Staff 


. Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA, for any other 
Department or Agency 


oA 8 oF 


Q 


2. This copy may be either retained or destroyed by burning in accordance with 
applicable security regulations, or returned to the Central Intelligence Agency by 
arrangement with the Office of Collection and Dissemination, CIA. 


WARNING 


This document contains information affecting the national 
defense of the United States within the meaning of the 
Espionage Act, 50 U.S.C., 31 and 32, as amended. Its trans- 
mission or the revelation of its contents in any manner to 
an unauthorized person is prohibited by law. 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


ORE 15-48 sfx 


THE CURRENT SITUATION IN KOREA 


SUMMARY 


US strategic interests would be seriously affected by the absorption of Korea into 
the Soviet orbit. The current political, economic, and military situation in the US and 
Soviet Zones, respectively, makes it unlikely that any government erected in South 
Korea under UN auspices could long survive the withdrawal of US forces unless it were 
to receive continuing and extensive US economic, technical, and military aid. Present 
indications are that a government dominated by the Extreme Rightists under Rhee 
Syngman will emerge from the forthcoming UN-observed elections. Such a regime, 
if left to itself, would be incapable of withstanding ideological and military pressure 
from North Korea. On the other hand, any unconditional US commitments to such a 
potentially unpopular and unreliable government anigat be a source of future embar- 
rassment to US policy in the Far East. 


Note: The information in this report is as of 3 March 1948, at which time the report was submitted 
to the intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, Army, Navy, and Air Force 
for concurrence or substantial dissent. 

The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, Navy, and Air Force have con- 
curred in the report; the Intelligence Division, Department of the Army, has concurred in 
the military aspects of the report. 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


SEG 
‘THE CURRENT SITUATION IN KOREA 


1. Importance or Korea. 


Absorption of Korea into the Soviet sphere of influence would: 


a. Have a seriously adverse political and psychological impact throughout the 
already unstable Far East, particularly in China, Japan, and the Philippines; which 


would increase in direct proportion to the investment made by the US in Korea prior to 


ey any surrender of that country to Soviet domination; 

_ b. Injure US prestige throughout the world where it is recognized that the 
as US has substantial moral commitments in Korea, one of the three countries where 
. the US and USSR stand face to face, directly associated with activities and devel- 


opments within their respective zones; 
c. In case of war, furnish an important Soviet position threatening both Japan 
and the North China coast. 


2. CONDITIONS IN THE US Zone (SoutH Korza). 
a. The Political Situation. 

The struggle between the US and the USSR over the future political orienta- 
tion of Korea has served both to condition and to obscure the nature of political align- 
ments within South Korea. As is true in most relatively undeveloped areas, the bulk ; 
of the population is ignorant of political realities and is, in general, more concerned 
with the business of making a living than with the larger issues of national and inter- 
national politics. The continued presence of foreign occupation forces on Korean 
soil has resulted in chronic native resentment at the delay of the long-promised 

: independence of Korea and at the protracted artificial split of the country. However, 
the continued economic distress has been a more serious factor in producing the bitter 
restlessness which characterizes the attitude of the mass of the South Korean popula- 
tion at the present time. : 

’ The political organizations struggling for control of the inarticulate South 
Korean population can be broadly classified as: Right, Moderate, and Left. The stakes 
involved in this struggle are considerable. The greatest portion of the wealth of South 
Korea was formerly Japanese owned and is now frozen in the form of “vested property.” 
The problem of the future disposition of this vested property is the core of political 
differences within South Korea upon which the larger US-USSR struggle has been 
grafted. The tendency of all political factions to adapt the international situation to 
domestic rivalries by seeking the support of one or the other power has served to 
obscure the domestic issues and to polarize the domestic conflict into two contending 
extremist camps. 

When, for example, the Left gravitated toward the Soviet Union as the out- 
spoken advocate of equalitarian distribution of the national wealth, it found a valuabie 
ally but lost its freedom of action: it was rapidly infiltrated and forged into a political 
instrument for eventual Soviet domination of South Korea. Along with substantial 
financial assistance from North Korea, it had to accept an external direction which 
forced it to adopt extreme tactics in supporting the dictates of Soviet policy. 


._..____ Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 ___. _-___.. 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 
s ET 


The tactics of the Left inevitably forced an immediate reaction from the Right. 
The leadership of this group of parties is provided by that numerically small class 
which virtually monopolizes the native wealth and education of the country. Since 
it fears that an equalitarian distribution of the vested Japanese assets would serve as 
a precedent for the confiscation of concentrated Korean-owned wealth, it has been 
brought into basic opposition with the Left. Since this class could not have acquired 
and maintained its favored position under Japanese rule without a certain minimum of 
“collaboration,” it has experienced difficulty in finding acceptable candidates for politi- 
cal office and has been forced to support imported expatriate politicians such as Rhee 
Syngman and Kim Koo. These, while they have no pro-Japanese taint, are essentially 
demagogues bent on autocratic rule. Acceptance of this extremist leadership has 
forced the Right to discard its more moderate elements and has served to widen the 
gulf between the two opposing camps. 


Korea’s complete lack of a democratic tradition made it certain that both sides 
would resort to violence as the only weapon available for the settlement of political 
disputes. Hence each side organized and subsidized “youth groups” to furnish strong- 
arm support for propaganda and organizational endeavors among the mass of the 
population and to counter, by force, the efforts of its adversary. 

When the Left resorted to terrorism to achieve its ends, one of its first targets 
was the South Korean police force, a logical target for two reasons: (1) there was a 
reservoir of popular resentment against the police which could be tapped at any time; 
and (2) it represented the constituted authority which the Left was under orders to 
undermine. The latent popular resentment against the police was a necessary result 
of the only tradition which the police had to draw upon in the execution of their tasks. 
Whatever administrative skills the police force possessed it had learned from the Japa- 
nese, at the same time that it was acquiring whatever respect for civil liberties it now 
possesses. Hence, the police force, faced with the emergency of Leftist terrorism, replied 
in the only way it knew by being ruthlessly brutal in suppressing disorder. For this rea- 
son it is now in the position of being inevitably committed to support of the Right, since 
it realizes that the successful creation of a Leftist regime in South Korea would mean the 
massacre of police personnel. 

The enforced alliance of the police with the Right has been reflected in the 
cooperation of the police with Rightist youth groups for the purpose of completely sup- 
pressing Leftist activity. This alignment has had the effect of forcing the Left to 
operate as an underground organization since it could not effectively compete in a par- 
liamentary sense even if it should so desire. In this situation the Left has adopted the 
tactic of sporadically suspending its campaign of terrorism against individuals in order 
to bring into bolder relief the extortions and brutalities of the police force and Rightist 
youth groups. In addition, Communist propaganda contrasts the “proletarian para- 
dise”’ of North Korea with the continued economic distress of the South. The Left thus 
plays upon the basic dissatisfactions of the South Koreans in order to undermine politi- 
cal and economic stability through the instigation of public disorders and sabotage at 
any moment considered propitious by the Communist leadership. Current Communist- 
organized opposition to the holding of elections in South Korea is a case in point. 


3 s ET 


__ Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 ___ 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


sfc 


Although the Moderates, led by Dr. Kimm Kiu Sik, represent perhaps the only 
potentially democratic force in Korea today, they are not a cohesive group but a loose 
assemblage of splinter parties with a relatively small popular following. As a con- 
sequence of the continuing polarization of South Korean politics, the Moderates are 
being driven toward the extremes if only for future self-protection. Without active US 
support and encouragement, they cannot hope to cope with the demagogic appeal of 
the Extreme Right or the conspiratorial efficiency of the Extreme Left. 

The Rightists, perceiving in this situation the assurance of an overwhelming 

“ victory in an early parliamentary election, are presently engaged in a ruthless struggle 

ae among themselves for control of the reins of power with Rhee Syngman having the best 

’ prospects for success. Alliances of convenience are being formed in an attempt to 
present a united front, but there is every prospect that Rhee’s accession to power will 
be followed by intra-party cleavages and by the ruthless suppression of all non-Rhee 
Rightist, Moderate, and Leftist opposition. 


b. Economic Situation. 


The rupturing of Korea’s prewar economic relationship with Japan and the 
artificial separation of South Korea from the North has resulted in chronic shortages 
of such basic items as fertilizer, coal, and electric power as well as of technical and 
administrative skills. ‘These shortages are reflected in a general paucity of consumers’ 
goods and in a growing inflation. In addition, the Rightists’ control of the South 
Korean Interim Legislature has permitted them successfuly to obstruct certain vitally 
needed economic reforms. 

There is no immediate prospect of a cessation of this economic distress. It 
has been estimated that under the best conditions, involving considerable US aid, South 
Korea could not achieve a marginal self-supporting status in less than 5 years. In 
any case, South Korea will remain dependent on the Soviet Zone for most of its 
electric power supply for some time. By inciting unrest in South Korea and by choking 
off the supply of power, the USSR has the capability of effectively sabotaging and delay- 

* ing any recovery program initiated in the South. 
c. Military Situation. 
There is at present no native military establishment in South Korea which 
could execute an effective defense against outside aggression. It is estimated that it 
would take a minimum of one year for the US to train and equip a force which could 
meet the North Korean “People’s Army” on even terms, at that army’s present strength. | 


3. CONDITIONS IN THE SovieT ZONE (NorTH Korea). 
a. Political Situation. 
The USSR is in continuing process of creating a political regime in North 
Korea, molded in the Soviet image and designed as a base from which control can be 
extended to all Korea. At the present time, efforts are being concentrated on equipping 
this regime with all the institutional apparatus necessary for recognizing it as a 
sovereign and independent “Korean People’s Republic.” 
A “Draft Provisional Constitution” was submitted to the North Korean People’s | 
Assembly on 7 February, and it was decided to refer it to the “people” for “discussion” : 


______-.. Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 Se eet 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 
iS) 


prior to its formal adoption some time in mid-March. This document shows unmis- 
takable signs of Soviet influence and quite clearly anticipates eventual incorporation 
of all of Korea under the contemplated ‘People’s Republic of Korea” even to the point 
of specifying Seoul, capital of the present US Zone, as the future capital of a united 
Korea. By completing all major preparations for the establishment of a “People’s 
Republic” the USSR is giving itself the capability of anticipating or countering the 
efficacy of any attempt by the UN to establish a government in South Korea, since a 
Soviet puppet regime can be announced and recognized as the legal government of 
Korea at any time that political exigencies demand such a move. 

The USSR is constantly refining the procedure whereby it masks its ever- 
increasing centralized control over the puppet regime. Potential dissidents having 
been eliminated from the area soon after the arrival of the Red Army, there is no 
reliable evidence of any serious disaffection or organized resistance among the 10 million 
North Koreans, despite the fact that a full-blown police state is emerging. This 
situation has been made possible largely through the characteristically shrewd Soviet 
recognition of the basic needs of the native population (land reform, political participa- 
tion, education, etc.) and through the erection of a regime equipped to satisfy those 
desires if only by means of an incessant propaganda barrage. As long as no structure 
better adapted to Korean needs is established in South Korea to compete for Korean 
loyalty, it is fruitless to hope for extensive defections from this North Korean regime 
which gives every indication of increasing its strength as its political and economic plans 
reach maturity. 

b. Economic Situation. 

Soviet political efforts to insure the absorption of North Korea into the Soviet 
orbit have been accompanied by similar steps in the economic sphere, in the form of 
joint Soviet-Korean corporations, barter agreements, and institutional reform along 
Soviet lines. Despite continued Soviet removal of Korean commodities and manufac- 
tures, which tends to impede any solution of North Korea’s economic problems, it is 
safe to say that economic conditions in the Soviet Zone are at least no worse than those 
in the US Zone even though the latter has received fairly extensive relief supplies. 
This can be explained by the fact that the North Korean economy is better balanced 
industrially than that of the South and that there is comparatively less pressure on its 
food resources. Moreover, the USSR is apparently engaged in integrating the North 
Korean industrial complex with the Manchurian agricultural economy. Such a plan, 
if successfully implemented, would force South Korea to “wither on the vine” unless it 
could avail itself of an industrial partner—Japan or the US—to complement its agri- 
cultural production. At the same time the North Korean economy would suffer no 
detrimental effect by reason of its enforced rupture from the South. 

c. Military Situation. 

On 8 February 1948, the North Korean People’s Committee, in celebration of 
its second anniversary, unveiled the “Korean People’s Army” (KPA) and significantly 
called attention to the South Korean “uprisings” against the UN Commission which 
had been instigated by Communist agents in such a way as to occur simultaneously. 
The KPA, operating under a “Department of National Defense,” is estimated to have 


5 safer 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


SHQRET 
an approximate strength of 125,000, is Soviet trained and advised, and has been fur- 
nished with adequate infantry and infantry-support weapons of Soviet manufacture 
which, although obsolete, are apparently in excellent condition. Soviet-inspired 
propaganda is psychologically preparing the North Koreans for using this force in an 
eventual “war of national liberation” in South Korea. For the present, the force is 
valuable from a propaganda standpoint in that it enhances the prestige of the North 
Korean regime internally and can be used for “scare” purposes in a politically unstable 
South Korea. More important, as in the political sphere, it gives the USSR the capa- 
bility of anticipating, or immediately duplicating, another US move. Should the US 
withdraw its troops, the USSR could easily fulfill its self-imposed commitment of “simul- 
taneous withdrawal” of occupation forces with no impairment of its superior position. 
The USSR has been constantly stripping its forces in North Korea in preparation for 
such a move. The structure of control would survive the troop withdrawal, and the 


KPA would be competent to handle any probable missions required against a militarily 
defenseless South Korea. 


4. PROBABLE FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS. 


The decision of the UN Interim Committee to authorize the UN Commission in 
Korea to observe elections in the US Zone will result in the formation in South Korea 
of a “National Assembly” and a “National Government” representing two-thirds of the 
total Korean population. Such a government will have little prospect of permanency. 
Politically it will be faced with the immediate threat of a competing Soviet-sponsored 
regime to the North. Economically, it will have no immediate prospect for alleviation 
of chronic distress. The new government will also have to contend with a continuous 
effort on the part of the Communist “Fifth Column” to instigate sabotage and disorder 
on the basis of economic and political discontent, thus multiplying the difficulties now 
existing. 

Lastly, the South Korean Government will be threatened with military disaster 
following an early withdrawal of US forces. Such a withdrawal would probably be pre- 
ceded or shortly followed by similar Soviet action, thus leaving the KPA free to engage in 
its long-awaited “liberation” of South Korea with the aid of its organized “Fifth 
Column” and with no danger of effective opposition. 

Delay of US withdrawal for the time necessary to organize an adequate South 
Korean defense force would serve to postpone a successful North Korean invasion but, 
by itself, would not prevent it. The basic economic and political problems would remain 
unsolved, and the defense forces would be left operating on the basis of an “ox-cart’”’ 
economy and an unstable political structure. Only continued and extensive US sub- 
sidization could preserve any future Korean regime from the imminent threat of mili- 
tary extinction. 

An early election in South Korea will result in a Rightist sweep and in the probable 
formation of a government headed by Extreme Rightist Rhee Syngman since the Left 
will boycott the elections and the Moderates will be loath to participate too actively 
without a full US guarantee of the independence of the future government. (The 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 
S ET 


Moderates are, however, masking their basic feelings of insecurity by raising the specious 
objection that the elections will encourage “separatism.”) On the basis of Rhee’s 
past record and present conduct, it is probable that a Rhee Government, if left to 
its own devices, would play directly into Soviet hands. Soviet propaganda would 
be provided with a substantial basis in fact for charging the regime with being 
corrupt, reactionary, and oppressive. By discrediting itself with the South Korean 
population, such a regime would facilitate the task of the KPA in “liberating” South 
Korea following the withdrawal of US forces. At this juncture Rhee would probably 
look to the US for support. The US might then be faced with the choice of giving aid 
and comfort to a discredited, unpopular regime while risking the censure of world 
opinion; or of withdrawing its support in response to moral pressure and face the 
charge of breaking another promise in the Far East. 


______... Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 ..__... _.- 


i Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


DISTRIBUTION 


3 
The President 
Secretary of State 
Chief of Staff to Commander in Chief 
Secretary of Defense 
Secretary of the Army 
: Secretary of the Navy ; 
Secretary of the Air Force 
Executive Secretary, National Security Council 
‘ Chairman, National Security Resources Board 
Chief of Staff, US Army 
Chief of Naval Operations 
Chief of Staff, US Air Force 
Director of Plans and Operations, General Staff, US Army 
Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Operations) 
Director of Plans and Operations, US Air Force 
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State, Research and Intelligence 
i Director of Intelligence, General Staff, US Army 
Chief of Naval Intelligence 
Director of Intelligence, US Air Force 
Secretary, Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Secretary, Joint Intelligence Group 
Secretary, State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee 
Executive Secretary, Military Liaison Committee to the Atomic Energy Commission 
Director of Security and Intelligence, Atomic Energy Commission 
Chief, Acquisition and Distribution, OICD, Department of State 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


-  Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


1 . o 


U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
2284—S—1948 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2013/08/08 : CIA-RDP78-01617A003100100001-5 


