ball 


Approved For Release 2003/12/22 : CIA-RDIBA4 -00706R000200020082-5 . 
sr 
Assistant Director, Office of Operation 14 June 1946 
Chief, Foreign Documents Branch 

Evacuation of Impounded Documents from Korea 


Since there is almost no information on Russia and her Far 
Eastern Satellites available in the English language, it followr 
that the necessary data, both basic and current, must be obtained 
from foreign language sources, Among the most fruitful and com- 
prehensive of these are naturally those that were produced by the 
antagonista of Russia on the eastern front in the late war. The 
Japanese war machine acewmlated a mass of detailed information 
which was built up through the work of special organizations over 
a period of years in both peace and war on not only pre-war Russia, 
but also on the territory under her direct or indirect control and 
must, for purposes of considering Russia's war potential, be given 
equal and serious detailed consideration. 


It is believed that large quantities of such information is 
represented by foreign language publications, impounded or otherwiss, 
and are still available in Korea. The seriousness of the inter- 
national situation in Xorea has brought to the forefront the necessity 
of formalating a plan of emergency evacuation and/or destruction or 
abandonment of impounded documents due to possible exigencies wherein 
seizure of these documents by a potential enemy ic imminent. Aggressive 
and definite action to determine the following categories of documents 
for appropriate disposition should be expeditiously inaugurated: 


a. Those which are of basic intelligence value to the United 
States. 


b. Those whese possession by an enemy power would be detri- 
mental to the United States. 


c. Thoge whose possession by an enemy power might result in 
undue hardship to indigenous personnel. 


It 14s recommended that an inquiry be directed to the Department of 
Army in regards to the present status of documents in Korea. Specifically 
the following information is desired: 


a. What categories or general classification of documents 
(economic, historical, political, government, ete.) are 
presently available in Korea under Aray jurisdiction? 
Military government jurisdiction? State Department 
jurisdiction? In what lanzuagea ar? these documentr in 
general? 


Approved For Release 2003/12/22 : SREOUE nicsasinones 


25X1A 


Approved For Release 2003/12/22 : AEB REorosragg2o00z00825 


b. Are there any document repositories or eollections 
not now under U.S. control bearing on Russia, Manchuria, 
Mongolia, China or Korea that could be requisitioned by 
U.8.? 


co. Is there an emergency plan in existence or in actual 
operation for evacuation of impounded documents from 
Korea? 


a, What will be the ultimate disposition of documents now 
in U.S. possession? 


Tnere is a need for obtaining this information as soon as possible. 
With imminent withdrawal of United States Forces and subsequent establish- 
mont of State Department Consulates in Korsa, the importance of procuring 
necessary information for operational use in the field and long range use 
4n Washington cannot be disregarded. The same type and amount of infor- 
mation required by the State Department is also required by CIA and other 
intelligence agencies in Washington, 25X1A 


Attention is called to the attached memorandum prepared by [| 
who personally visited the area as @ documents screener. 


eres 25X1A 
Colonel, Fa. 


Encl: Atchd. 3 > 


Approved For Release 2003/12/22 : CIA-RDP81-00706R000200020082-5 


= 2» 


