ie COPY NO.91 
FOR THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
FOR REPORTS AND ESTIMATES 


dECRET . CIA 


G/S/ 
PROSPECTS FOR SURVIVAL OF THE 
REPUBLIC OF KOREA 


CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM 
RELEASE IN FULL | 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


S : 

ra scaunes § ALCURIG Cre Se 
bet Tee USE Batt ae ) 

C244 gD sor BQ a io) 


DISSEMINATION NOTICE 


1. This copy of this publication is for the information and use of the recipient 
designated on the front cover and of individuals under the jurisdiction of the recipient's 
office who require the information for the performance of their official duties. Further 
dissemination elsewhere in the department to other offices which require the informa- 
tion for the performance of official duties may be authorized by. the following: 


a. Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Research and Intelligence, for 
the Department of State 


. Director of Intelligence, GS, USA, for the Department of the Army 

. Chief, Naval Intelligence, for the Department of the Navy 

. Director of Intelligence, USAF, for the Department of the Air Force 

. Director of Security and Intelligence, AEC, for the Atomic Energy Com- 
mission 

f. Deputy Director for Intelligence, Joint Staff, for the Joint Staff 


g. Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA, for any other 
Department or Agency 


ono Oo 


2. This copy may be either retained or destroyed by burning in accordance with 
applicable security regulations, or returned to the Central Intelligence Agency by 
arrangement with the Office of Collection and Dissemination, CIA. 


DISTRIBUTION: 

Office of the President 

National Security Council 

National Security Resources Board 
Department of State 

Office of Secretary of Defense 
Department of the Army 
Department of the Navy 
Department of the Air Force 
State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee 
Joint Chiefs of Staff 

Atomic Energy Commission 
Research and Development Board 


ORE 4448 QpeRrT 


PROSPECTS FOR SURVIVAL OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA 
SUMMARY 


The Republic of Korea, inaugurated on 15 August 1948 under UN observation, is 
faced with numerous pressing problems in the political, military, and economic spheres. 
Its prospects for survival may be considered favorable as long as it can continue to 
receive large-scale aid from the US. 


The new government has been organized with widespread popular support, and 
despite Korean inexperience with parliamentary institutions and the tendency of the 
present constitution to concentrate excessive power in the hands of the President, the 
present administration is apparently making good initial progress in the development 
of responsible government. Fwrthermore, the Republic has good prospects for secur- 
ing de jure international recognition, a development which will further strengthen 
its domestic position. 

Following the withdrawal of US occupation forces the Republic of Korex will be 
faced with the threat of aggression from the north by the Soviet puppet “Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea.” It is believed, however, that prior to US withdrawal a 
South Korean army can be trained and equipped which will act as an effective deterrent 
to such Soviet-inspired aggression. This army would, however, require continuing US 
material aid and technical advice if it were to retain its effectiveness. 

Although the economy of the Republic is afflicted with certain critical shortages 
and problems at the present time, some degree of economic recovery can be achieved 
if US assistance is made available and if US advice is accepted and properly imple- 
mented. Thus far the new government has demonstrated a willingness to accept US 
guidance in economic affairs, provided this advice is offered in such a way that Korean 
nationalist sensitivities are not offended. The Republic of Korea can permanently over- 
come its present deficit economic position only on the basis of multilateral trade with 
other Far Eastern countries and with the northern zone of Korea. Until such time as 
this development is politically feasible, the political stability of the new government will 
rest on a deficient economic base, and its political survival will therefore depend in 
large part on continued US subsidization. 


Note: The information in this report is as of 27 September 1948. 
Substantial contributions were furnished by the intelligence organizations of tle Depart- 
ments of State and of the Army. Those of the Navy and the Air Force also furnished data. 
The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, Army, and the Air Force have 


concurred in this report; for a dissent by the Office of Naval Intelligence, see Enciosure A, 
p. 17. - 


super 


PROSPECTS FOR SURVIVAL OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA 


1. GENESIS OF THE NEW GOVERNMENT. 


The Republic of Korea, inaugurated in Seoul on 15 August 1948, was formed by the 
National Assembly which was elected in South Korea on 10 May under the observation 
of the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea (UNTCOK) and in fulfillment 
of the UN General Assembly resolutions of 14 November 1947. These resolutions were 
intended to establish a provisional government for all Korea, but a complete Soviet 
boycott restricted the program to the southern zone only, making the relationship of 
the new government to the original UNGA resolutions uncertain. Thus the exact 
status of the regime will be determined largely through the actions of the 1948 session 
of UNGA. Meanwhile the US and the Philippines have accorded what may be con- 
sidered de facto recognition to the new government, while China has granted it provi- 
sional recognition. 


a. Political Composition. 


Although the 10 May South Korean elections had strong popular support, they 
were boycotted by almost all organized parties except two of the large extreme rightist 
groups—-the National Society for the Acceleration of Korean Independence (NSAKI) 
and the Hankook Democratic Party—plus their affillates. The Communists in South 
Korea, constituting a very small minority of the electorate and acting as a political 
instrument of the Soviet puppet North Korean regime, took an early stand against the 
election and even attempted to defeat it through revolution. The moderate factions 
under the leadership of Kimm Kyusik, and an element of the extreme right under 
Kim Koo joined with the Communists in boycotting the election on the ostensible 
grounds that the election would tend to perpetuate the artificial division of Korea. 
However, there is good reason to believe that they were actually motivated by the reali- 
zation that participation in the election would-be politically disadvantageous because 
of their small popular following. - 


The one-sided political composition of the government is more apparent than 
real. The two extreme rightist factions which fully participated in the elections are 
the only two parties that are strong and well organized throughout the southern zone, 
and they appear to represent the political leadership of the vast majority of the people 
of that zone. Moreover, there is good indication that a group of “independents”, 
unaffiliated with either of the two major parties, will play a strong hand in the 
future conduct of affairs. This group consists largely of Kim Koo adherents who 
broke party discipline to participate in the election, and of unaffiliated individuals of 
varying shades of political conviction who successfully overcame major-party compe- 
tition in the elections. As a result of the nearly equivalent strength of the NSAKI and 
the Hankooks in the elections, this group now finds itself in a “balance of power” posi- 
tion in the National Assembly. 


Lp. & blank } 


snap 


Korean inexperience in parliamentary procedures and a motley political com- 
plexion have combined to prevent the development of the “independent” bloc into an 
organized minority opposition to the social and economic philosophies of the two major 
parties. Thus far this group has restricted itself to taking advantage of the NSAKI - 
Hankook conflict in order to jockey for narrow factional, and even individual advantage. 
This lack of a healthy minority opposition based on a real divergence of political out- 
look, constitutes a real but understandable weakness of the new government. 


vb. Institutional Structure. 


Although the greater internal discipline and financial resources of the Han- 
kooks gave them an actual plurality in the Assembly, the unpopularity of the party, 
originating in its association with the landholding class, frustrated its hopes of gaining 
sufficient moderate “independent” support to secure control. The first test of strength 
involved the issue of the form and organization of the government, and the Hankooks 
suffered a major reverse. 


The original draft of the constitution was written by men close to the Hankook 
Democratic Party and provided for a parliamentary form of government. Rhee Syng- 
man * and his followers in the NSAKI objected strenuously to this draft, however, and 
advocated a strong executive system modeled after that of the US. Rhee’s adherents, 
conscious of the inevitability of his election to the Presidency, and the Hankooks, 
anxious to curb his power, each advocated that form of government that would best 
insure their own control of the state apparatus. In this struggle, Rhee was able to 
secure the support of the strategically placed “independents” and to force a revision of 
the draft which favored his position.. This conflict, and the face-saving concessions 
made to the Hankooks in the course of Rhee’s victory, serve to explain the unusual 
governmental structure established in the constitution and organic law—a strong 
executive government in essence, but with certain superficial features of a parliamen- 
tary system. 

The Prendent possesses onstaersbie power and freedom of action. He 
appoints the Prime Minister with the approval of the Assembly. but the Prime Minister 
has no policy-making powers since his function is merely to assist the President. The 
President also appoints the Ministers of the various executive departments. These, 
together with a variable number of Ministers without Portfolio, constitute the State 
Council. None of these appointments requires Assembly approval. Technically, execu- 
tive policy is formulated by a majority vote of the State Council, but since the Presi- 
dent’s power to appoint the State Council is unqualified, except in the case of the Prime 
Minister, the President has, in fact, complete contro] of the executive branch. 

The present National Assembly of 200 seats is to continue as the legislature 
for a period of two years; after that, there is to be a unicameral National Assembly 
elected for a fixed term of four years. The Assembly is capable of exercising consider- 
able influence on the executive branch since its members may introduce legislation as 
well as approve or reject bills introduced by the members of the State Council. The 


* See Appendix A. 


suff 4 


yi 


Assembly's eventual role in the government will largely depend, however, on how it 
chooses to exercise its prerogatives in the next few months. There is sufficient ambi- 
guity in the Constitution to permit a strong President to reduce the Assembly to the 
status of a “rubber-stamp”’ organization and unless the Assembly reacts promptly and 
vigorously to any threatened infringement of its rights this development may occur. 


To date, the new Republic of Korea has given evidence of a successful start 
in the direction of responsible government. President Rhee, in his appointments to 
the State Council, attempted to reverse the initial trend toward narrow factionalism; 
four of the eleven posts were given to members of the Hankook Democratic Party and 
two posts went to “independents,” one of them a former Communist. Considering the 
human material available in Korea after forty years of Japanese oppression, most of 
the members of the State Council would appear to be relatively competent. More- 
over, there is reason to believe that the President, despite his theoretically unqualified 
power of appointment, will shortly force the resignation of the one conspicuously incom- 
petent Minister whose appointment aroused a storm of protest in the Assembly and 
in the press. 


2. PROBLEMS CONFRONTING THE NEW GOVERNMENT. 


a. Political. 


The internal and external political problems are virtually one. Because the 
government is of international origin, it requires reasonably widespread international 
recognition; because Korean nationalism requires true unity, a “separate” govern- 
ment of only half the country, supported by only a small number of nations cannot 
hope to endure. Hence, the decisions of the 1948 UN meeting on Korea will be all-im- 
portant in determining both the international and domestic moral and legal founda- 
tions of the new government. 

Soviet strategy at the UN will include furtherance of the North Korean gov- 
ernment, attacks on the South Korean elections, and emphasis on portions of the 
UNTCOK report unfavorable to the US, all with an aim to delay decision on the prob- 
lem. Although it appears probable that the UN decision will be favorable, any repudia- 
tion of the South Korean government, or even weak international support of it would 
seriously undermine its chances of success. 


b. Military. 


The USSR and the North Korean government are capable of using force to 
implement their present intention of insuring the downfall of the Republic of Korea. 
While it is considered very unlikely that the Kremlin will authorize aggressive action 
against the southern zone as long as US forces remain in occupation, it is probable 
that current Soviet plans call for an attempt to overthrow the South Korean regime 
immediately following US withdrawal. 


Current information indicates that any such attempt would be initiated by 
major civil disturbances provoked by local Communists. Such disturbances, based on 
real social and economic grievances aggravated by Communist agitation, would be 


: fos 


suger 

aimed either at the direct overthrow of the government or at coercion of its leaders 
into some form of negotiation for Korean unity with the Democratic People’s Republic 
in North Korea. These disturbances would probably be accompanied by the infiltra- 
tion of People's Army troops or personnel of the North Korean Department of Internal 
Affairs, either as units in civilian clothes or as individuals, for the purpose of reinforcing 
local elements. The resultant civil warfare in South Korea would tax to the utmost 
the combined forces of the South Korean National Police and Constabulary in their 
attempt to restore order. These forces might moreover be seriously handicapped in 
their endeavors by their long-standing political rivalry. The Police, staunch defenders 
of the present regime, have frequently clashed with the Constabulary, an organization 
which has been a prime target of Communist infiltration. Attempts are being made 
to screen existing personnel and new recruits in the Constabulary, but this is a dif- 
ficult process, and the loyalty of at least certain elements will nprooeely, remain question- 
able for some time to come. 


Thus, even though Communist disorders might eventually be suppressed, the 
South Korean security forces would be seriously weakened. In this event, the North 
Korean People’s Army might consider an invasion, probably in response to a request 
from South Korean Communists to restore order. Such a request would become 
almost a certainty if the President were assassinated in the course of the insurrection, 
since a severe government crisis would inevitably result. Although a move is already 
on foot in the Assembly to amend the Constitution, not only does the present form of 
government concentrate power in the President's hands; but there is at present, no 
political leader who could serve as an adequate Teplacement for Rhee Syngman. 


The existence of an adequate native security force in South Korea would 
Serve as the only real deterrent to Soviet-inspired aggression. The problems involved 
in the creation of such a force would be considerable.* It is believed, nevertheless, that 
in the pericd prior to the withdrawal of US forces, a South Korean Army and small 
air component could be trained and equipped which would be competent to deal with 
any external threat short of open invasion by the Red Army proper. Since, however, 
the North Korean People’s Army has the capability of augmenting its strength con- 
tinuously, the initial efforts in the organization of a South Korean Army would have 
to be indefinitely supplemented by the work of a US military mission following the 
withdrawal of US occupation forces. Such a mission might well serve, by its very pres- 
ence, as a deterrent to North Korean aggression. 


In the light of these considerations, it is believed that a formal invasion by the 
People’s Army, while not a probability, will remain a menacing possibility. 
c. Economic. 


The major eccnomic problems confronting the new Korean government result 
from the artificial division of the country into two zones of occupation and from the 
loss of Japanese trade on which Korean economy was formerly dependent. Moreover, 
the postwar influx of repatriates and of refugees from North Korea has resulted in a 


* See Appendix B. 


suf 6 


sugfler 


rapid population increase which is exerting a severe strain on the diminished economic 
resources of South Korea. To attain economic independence, Korea must rehabilitate 
and expand its present production facilities and its agricultural and mining resources. 
US aid will be prerequisite for the accomplishment of these tasks.* 


The chances for stability and survival will, within the coming twelve months, 
hinge more on the question of food supplies than on any other single question of an 
economic nature. Solution of this problem will largely depend on the ability of the 
government to maintain an efficient grain collection and distribution program and to 
supplement domestic grain supplies by imports from the United States and from 
other areas. 


Low yield per acre, one cause of the shortage, can be raised through importa- 
tion of fertilizers. Korea’s fishing industry can be utilized as a rich source of food- 
stuffs for local consumption and for exports if its equipment is rehabilitated. 


The shortage of electric power caused by the shutting off of deliveries from the 
North is seriously retarding South Korea’s industrial recovery. Rehabilitation of exist- 
ing power plants and increased imports of coal must be depended on to restore a por- 
tion of the power requirements. Imports of coal, petroleum products, raw cotton, raw 
rubber, and salt are needed to maintain operation of the Korean transportation sys- 
tem and industrial facilities. a 


A lack of skilled administrators and managers will seriously complicate the 
execution of a program of controls of various kinds, especially controls of prices, ration- 
ing, currency, and foreign exchange transactions. It is even more doubtful that the 
Korean government can find experts to plan and formulate the policies necessary to 
insure economic stability. This lack is so critical that the survival of the Korean gov- 
ernment on economic grounds will inevitably depend as much on outside aid in plan- 
ning and administration as on outside material assistance. 


Although economic recovery will necessarily be dependent on US advice and 
assistance, the political composition and social outlook of the groups participating 
in the new government indicate the possibility of resistance to certain US proposals for 
dealing with urgent economic problems. For example, it is known that the govern- 
ment grain collection and distribution program is vigorously opposed by some of the 
landowners represented in the Hankook Democratic Party since it promises to cur- 
tail profiteering in hoarded rice rents. Similar objections are raised against the 
increased taxation which must result from any attempt to increase government reve- 
nues. Although the various parties represented in the present government have 
pledged themselves to the re-distribution of the formerly Japanese-owned “vested” 
lands—a program initiated by US Military Government— they appear unwilling to 
divide large Korean-held estates. With the distribution of vested lands, a large num- 
ber of Korean farmers will gain title to land that they formerly cultivated as tenants. 
The effect on social stratification in Korea cannot be estimated as yet, but it would 
appear to be of greatest importance to the stability of the government to continue and 


7 soffes 


* See Appendix C. 


SEC 


to expand this program of reform as a means of broadening the social base of its popu- 
lar support, thus counteracting Communist agitation. 


Beyond US assistance, the economic problems of the new Korean government 
can be solved only in close cooperation with other Far Eastern countries. Revival of 
foreign trade between Korea and China and between Korea and Japan, and the open- 
ing of the trade between the northern and southern part of the country are required 
for any long-range stabilization of the South Korean economy, even though they may 
not be politically feasible at the present time. This trade will depend largely on the 
export of marine products, tungsten, and graphite. 


3. CONCLUSIONS. 


As long as the present Soviet policy in the Far East continues unchanged, it must 
be assumed that the USSR will not be satisfied with its present hold on North Korea 
and will exert continuing efforts to establish eventual control over all Korea. Under 
such circumstances, the Republic of Korea can survive only,on the basis of large-scale 
US military, economic, and technical aid over an indefinite period. The extent of US aid 
required to maintain the Republic against internal and external threats to its existence 
will be increased considerably, however, if the present political leadership loses the 
force of moving toward unified government and insists, against US advice, on acting 
in its own selfish class interest, thus narrowing its popular base of support and increas- 
ing its vulnerability to Soviet-inspired subversion and aggression. 


At the present time, the Republic of Korea appears to have good prospects for 
gaining widespread international recognition and for attaining a measure of respon- 
sible government sufficient to secure the loyalty of the South Korean population. Thus, 
as long as US aid is forthcoming in sufficient quantities to help solve the regime's press- 
ing economic and military problems, the prospects for survival of the Republic can be 
considered favorable. 


ff 


APPENDIX A 
PERSONALITY OF RHEE SYNGMAN 


Rhee Syngman is a genuine patriot acting in what he regards as the best interests 
of an independent Korea. He tends, however, to regard the best interests of Korea as 
synonymous with his own. It is as if he, in his own mind at least, were Korea. 

Rhee has devoted his life to the cause of an independent Korea with the ultimate 
objective of personally controlling that country. In pursuing this end he has shown 
few scruples about the elements which he has been willing to utilize for his personal 
advancement, with the important exception that he has always refused to deal with 
Communists. This accounts for the fact that Rhee has become the symbol of anti- 
Communism in the Korean mind. He has also been unscrupulous in his attempts to 
thrust aside any person or proup he felt to be in his way. Rhee’s vanity has made him 
highly susceptible to the contrived flattery of self-seeking interests in the US and in 
Korea. His intellect is a shallow one, and his behavior is often irrational and literally 
childish. Yet Rhee, in the final analysis, has proved himself to be a remarkably astute 
politician. Although he has created for himself the combination role of Korean Moses 
and Messiah, he has very rarely permitted himself to forget the hard political realities 
of his position. 

Rhee has spent most of his life in exile, largely in the US. In 1919, he was elected 
first President of the Korean Provisional Government, located in China, and later served 
as its diplomatic representative in the US and at the League of Nations. During World 
War IT he used his position as head of the Provisional Government’s Korean Commis- 
sion in Washington to promote his own interests and to establish a personal lobby 
which has proved extremely valuable to him. 

Rhee returned to Korea in October 1945, apparently expecting that in recogni- 
tion of his lifelong devotion to Korean independence, and in deference to what he con- 
sidered his incontestable position as the leading Korean statesman, he would be ac- 
corded a pre-eminent role in a Korean state, unhampered by foreign interference. The 
Moscow Agreement of December 1945 provided instead for continued foreign occupa- 
tion, the Joint US-Soviet Commission, and eventual four-power trusteeship. Thus it 
postponed indefinitely the day of united Korean independence. 

At once Rhee voiced a bitter protest against trusteeship and demanded some imme- 
diate form of Korean self-government. These were the two principal themes of Rhee’s 
political campaign up to the announcement of the general elections of May 1948. Pos- 
sibly Rhee guessed that the Joint Commission would fail; he certainly distrusted the 
USSR from the outset. He knew that the very word “trusteeship” was anathema to 
the Koreans and that a demand for self-rule would be widely favored. During 1946 
and 1947 Rhee kept up his campaign, varying its intensity and bitterness according 
to the current situation. He, personally and through his Washington lobby, bombarded 
the US government, other sympathetic governments, the UN, and the US press with 


9 suffer 


sug 


demands for abrogation of the trusteeship agreement and for immediate elections, in 
South Korea at least. Publicly he demanded the removal of occupation forces; but 
when the USSR proposed joint withdrawal, Rhee was the first to proclaim it to be the 
duty of the US to retain its troops in South Korea until that area was able to defend 
itself. Sub rosa, he proposed that the US set up a government in South Korea, granting 
it military and economic aid and securing UN recognition for it. Further evidence that 
Rhee counted on US support, despite his talk of government by Korean efforts alone, 
was his suggestion to General Draper that he would be pleased to see the US have a 
naval base on Chejudo. 

Rhee seems to have felt that the US should at least have continued to accord him 
the preferential treatment he received in the first few months following his return to 
Korea, but when it became apparent that he could no longer hope for special status, 
he evidently concluded that General Hodge, in violation of US policy, was personally 
responsible. (A partial explanation for this conclusion may be found in messages from 
Rhee’s Washington office, the Korean Commission, which gave the impression that 
the Department of State was giving high regard and consideration to Rhee's opinions.) 
Thus Rhee’s vindictiveness at the unfavorable turn of events was directed especially 
against General Hodge. Rhee waged an almost unceasing rumor campaign against 
the General, capitalizing on any US Military Government errors, charging that Hodge 
refused to obey directives from Washington and that he was putting Communists in 
control in South Korea. Rhee’s organization spread his accusations outside Korea, 
to General MacArthur, to the Department of State, and to members of Congress. 

Rhee’s tactics in the past three years have been based on a remarkably accurate 
estimate of popular attitudes and prevailing political conditions. Although Rhee 
once went so far as to threaten a coup against the Interim Government in South 
Korea, he has usually been astute enough to avoid any absolute stand impossible of 
achievement. On one occasion only did he really seem in danger of going too far. 
When he returned from his trip to the US, he stated that the US Government had 
promised him immediate elections and a large loan. His prestige suffered considerably 
when his statements were refuted by US authorities, but he managed to extricate 
himself from the difficulty with minimum adverse effect. 

Rhee carefully built up the illusion, inside Korea, that his opinions carried consid- 
erable weight with high US officials and that internationally he was regarded as the 
spokesman for the Korean people. . In a short time following his return, Rhee became 
the only Korean leader with any sort of popular following, and his name was spread 
throughout Korea as the champion of Korean independence. Rhee has been able to 
maintain his position of pre-eminence by clever politics and by default; no other leader 
has appeared to challenge him, save perhaps Lyuh Woon Hyung who was assassinated 
in 1947. Rhee has succeeded in setting up a political machine, the National Society 
for the Acceleration of Korean Independence (NSAKI), whose numerous branches 
extend outward from Seoul as far down as the county level. He is the only political 
leader in South Korea who has been able to set up such a machine. NSAKI consists 
of a rather loose amalgam of rightist groups whose allegiance to Rhee has been far 
from constant. He is not only an avowed enemy of Communists but he has had little 


softer 10 


a 


patience with liberal intellectuals of leftist and moderate persuasion. The latter have 
neither political influence outside of Seoul nor financial support, a consideration of 
great importance to Rhee. Many petty rightist politicians have adhered to Rhee in 
the hope of rising with him to political eminence, but Rhee’s mulish insistence on 
always playing the leading role and his high-handed methods have made it difficult 
for many leading conservatives, including the wealthy Hankooks, to work with him. 
They dare not overthrow him but must maintain an uneasy coalition with him since 
they need his political prestige. At the same time, since he requires their money and 
ability, he cannot ignore their demands. 


Rhee has used diverse methods for obtaining political funds. Dollars have been 
secured by direct contribution from his Korean following in Hawaii and in the US 
and by certain dubious exchange manipulations In Korea. His US backers have con- 
tributed to his cause in the hope of obtaining economic concessions in Korea upon Rhee’s 
rise to power, or of gaining social prestige through their connection with Rhee, or 
because of a wish to encourage anti-Communist regimes wherever possible. Many 
humble Koreans have been persuaded, by one means or another, to contribute won 
to Rhee’s cause, and wealthy Koreans have donated large sums on the basis of promises 
of favors or position on Rhee’s coming into control, or because of Rhee's “influence” 
with the US authorities. 


Today Rhee has gained his end. He is the President, with extensive powers, of an 
independent Korean regime. His government is eligible to receive US military and 
economic aid, and probably UN recognition. Although he wants as little interference 
with his plans as possible, he undoubtedly recognizes that his government's very 
existence depends upon aid from the US and that the US cannot be expected to grant 
that aid without a considerable voice in how it shall be used. The danger exists, how- 
ever, that Rhee’s inflated ego may lead him to action disastrous or at least highly 
embarrassing to the new Korean Government and to the interests of the US. 


One factor which may, nevertheless, restrain him is the National Assembly. 
Probably to Rhee’s great consternation, he is learning that he cannot ignore or ride 
rough-shod over the Assembly which has thus far refused to be a “rubber-stamp” 
institution. 


APPENDIX B 
THE MILITARY SITUATION IN KOREA 


1. Souru Korean Securrry Forces. 


Present South Korean security forces include the National Police totaling 35,000, 
the Constabulary with a strength of 52,765, and the Coast Guard of 2,906.* The Coast 
Guard is designed to furnish routine off-shore law enforcement, is not trained or 
equipped for naval or amphibious operations, and is known to be infiltrated by subver- 
sive elements. There is no air arm in the South Korean security forces nor has any 
native air defense system been established. 

Because of its rapid expansion from 16,500 in early 1948 to its present 52,765, the 
South Korean Constabulary requires considerable training and is still short of most 
of its planned equipment. Modern Korea has had no army and therefore lacks both 
military tradition and ‘experienced military leaders and administrators. Some Kore- 
ans have served in foreign military forces, including those of Japan, China, and the 
USSR. Virtually none, however, has had experience in handling large units. This 
shortcoming will delay the development of effective armed forces in South Korea. 
South Korea lacks the industries necessary to support a modern army and is not 
expected to develop such industries in the foreseeable future. Because of this defi- 
ciency, all weapons, ammunition, and equipment must be supplied by sources outside 
the country, probably by the US. Either zone of Korea has a sufficiently large man- 
power pool to supply recruits for armed forces of reasonable size without dislocation 
of the civilian economy. The generally low level of education, however, and the lack 
of mechanical experience of the average Korean will hamper training in the technical 
phases of military instruction. The average Korean is inured to hardship, however, 
and will respond to forceful leadership by what he regards as duly constituted authority. 


2. NorrH Korean SECURITY FORCES. 


It is estimated that the North Korean People’s Army could put into the field, for 
an operation in the near future against South Korea, a total of approximately 40,000 
troops, of which the main combat elements would be two infantry divisions and an 
independent mixed brigade. These troops would be well armed with obsolete but serv- 
iceable Soviet weapons and would be well equipped and well trained on the battalion 
level. The leadership for this training has been furnished largely by Koreans who have 
had previous military experience, either with the Chinese Communist forces or with 
the Red Army itself. In addition, instructors, both officers and enlisted men, have 
been furnished by the Soviet forces in North Korea to the Peoples’ Army. Soviet 
instructors have been identified down to and including the battalion level, and at 
latest report these instructors are still serving with the People’s Army. 


* All strength figures are as of 28 August 1948. 


13 suger 


[pte blank] 


‘SE 


According to western standards, the People’s Army would be lacking in medium 
and heavy artillery support, mechanized forces, and motor transportation. Although 
leaders and troops would be initially inexperienced in large-unit operations, the People’s 
Army has the capability, as time passes, not only of increasing its present strength but 
also of training its commanders and units in operations above battalion level. 


In addition to troops of the People’s Army itself, it is believed that not more than 
10,000 troops of the Lee Hong Kwang Detachment in Manchuria would be available for 
an attack on South Korea. This unit is reported, however, to be presently engaged in 
active operations against Chinese Nationalist forces. It is therefore probable that 
the problems involved in disengagement and transport would tend to delay its rab 
ment in operations against South Korea. 


Backing up the People’s Army in the event of an attack on South Korea would 
be the 58,000 men in the semi-militarized forces of the North Korean Department of 
Internal Affairs. Although some issue of Soviet weapons has been made, these forces 
are armed in the main with Japanese weapons. While it is unlikely that these 
police-type forces would be employed in a combat role, they would be capable of secur- 
ing rear areas of the People’s Army and might furnish a reserve of partially trained 
personnel. 


It is known that an air arm of the People’s Army is in process of development. It 
is believed that this force is designed to furnish air support to People’s Army ground 
forces and that it may consist of as many as 80 fighters, and 40 ground attack, aircraft. 
These aircraft are reportedly obsolete conventional types of Soviet and Japanese manu- 
facture. The effectiveness of this force assumes significance only when it is consid- 
ered in relation to the complete absence of any offensive or defensive air capabilities 
of the Republic of Korea. 

Although the North Korean baat Guard of sparen 6,000 men has increased 
its armament and equipment in recent months, there is no evidence that it is being 
trained in other than normal coast guard duties or that it would be capable of taking 
part in amphibious operations. 


SEQGRET 14 


offer 


CRITICAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE SOUTH KOREAN ECONOMY 


APPENDIX C 


1. GRAINS. 


According to expert estimates, a total of 220,000 metric tons of grain (brown rice 
equivalent) must be imported for the first half of fiscal year 1949 if the daily food 
ration for non-self-suppliers is to be maintained. This ration was reduced in July 
1948 from 2.5 hop (1,316 calories) to 2 hop (1,050 calories). Unless scheduled imports 
of grains can be met in full and an effective system of grain collection can be main- 
tained, a further reduction will shortly be inevitable which will Seriously endanger the 
Stability of the government. Importation of fertilizer would raise production suffi- 
ciently within one year to supply the required quantity of grains under the present 
rationing scheme, provided that weather conditions are favorable. On this basis an 
export surplus of rice would be possible within two or three years. 


2. MARINE PrRopucts. 


The Korean fishing industry could provide an important supplement to the Korean 
diet and also yield an exportable surplus if properly developed but, in order to rehabili- 
tate the fishing industry, fishing boats and equipment, which are at present in short 
supply and in need of repairs, would have to be imported, and Storage and transporta- 
tion facilities would have to be constructed. Moreover, about 2,000 metric tons of salt 
would have to be imported for the preservation of the catch for the coming year. 


3. Exnecrric POWER. 


With the cutting of power supplies from North Korea on 14 May 1948, South 
Korea lost 70% of normal sources of Supply. A rapid development of additional 
sources of power and repair of existing facilities is, therefore, necessary for the 
rehabilitation of the Korean economy. Importation of repair parts and new equip- 
ment, and a continuous flow of bituminous coal from Japan are required for maximum 
utilization of existing power facilities. US technical aid and equipment would be 
required for any construction of new hydroelectric generators designed to reduce 
Korean dependence on expensive coal imports. Moreover, if continued operation of the 
expanded power system is to be assured, Korean personnel would have to be trained. 


4. COAL. 


South Korean coal requirements for the production of electric power, for transpor- 
tation, and for industrial purposes amount to about one million tons annually, at the 
cost of US $15 million. Korean anthracite production is sufficient for local needs but 
cannot at present be fully exploited because of the shortage of bituminous coal needed 
for the means of transportation that must move the anthracite. Various methods have. 


15 | sufter 


been studied that will permit the briquetting of anthracite. If the vicious circle in 
coal production can be broken, it is hoped that imports of bituminous coal, at present 
obtained from Japan and financed by the US, can be reduced. Additional construc- 
tion of hydroelectric power facilities will also reduce the need for bituminous coal 
imports. The biggest problem appears to be the raising of present anthracite pro- 
duction (50,000 tons a month). Improved mining procedures may make available an 
additional 30,000 tons. To obtain additional tonnage would require capital develop- 
ment of existing mines or the opening of new mines. Both methods necessitate importa- 
tion of expensive equipment. 


5. Oruer Raw MATERIALS. 


Next to foodstuffs, coal, and power, Korea needs petroleum products most urgently 
for the maintenance of its transportation system, raw cotton (a minimum of 50 million 
pounds annually), and rubber. While the trade balance of South Korea ts at present 
heavily unfavorable because of the wide variety of needed imports, development of 
South Korea’s mining and agricultural production wotld provide the exportable ‘sur- 
pluses needed to balance its trade. This potential could be developed by proper 
economic policies and careful planning. 


ENCLOSURE A 


DISSENT OF THE OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE 


ONI dissents with ORE 44-48 because it belleves that: 


a. Survival of the Republic of (South) Korea is discussed almost wholly in terms 
of continued US aid and thus presents an optimistic view which is not warranted. The 
problem should be examined in the light of basic conditions without regard to future 
US aid policies. The probable effects of foreign aid could then be given supplementary 
consideration, bearing in mind the difficulty in attempting to predict the results of 
proposed aid, as an example of which the current Greek and Chinese situations can be 
cited. 


b. The Republic of (South) Korea does not have good prospects for securing inter- 
national recognition (see page 1, ines 9 to 11 and page 8, lines 21 to 23). In view of 
the recognition of the Democratic People’s Republic of (North) Korea by the USSR and 
some of her satellites, the possible clash of two different Korean delegations before the 
UN General Assembly and probable Russian compromise proposals designed to confuse 
the UN, prospects for international recognition of the Republic of (South) Korea are 
very uncertain. 


17 SECRET 


U. 8S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
3127—S—1948 


