ae Approved For Release 2000/08L STREP EI p0862R000100070042-1 
: a 


25X1Aggoronel LK. White, Chief, FRIB-CIA September 20, 1918 
BI 


' ~ + Broadcasts from Pyongyang 


Excepting for sporadic bits of infornmation from G~2 sources, this 
office is almost completely dependent upon the FBIB for current informa~ 
tion concerning North Korea. Our contacts with other offices confirm 
the unique importance of the FRIBts daily reports in this respect. 


However, there is one handicap in the Korean section of the bulletin 
_ that seriously limits its use. Korean proper names are frequently re- 
eeived in garbled form, often unidentifiable, or requiring time-consuming 
and laborious efforts to identify them. Frequently such erroneous names . 
gan be identified only by checking sources which are not avallable in 
Washington at the present time, 25X1A9a 25X1A9a 


This problem has been discussed at some length aes of 
25X1AQaq this office and a member of your staff, Ac a result of these 


discussions, A has prepared the enclosed list of prominent North 
Koreans (romanized in the McCune-Reischauer system) with Korean charac~ 
ters and official positions, It is hoped that copies of this list may be 
made available to FBIB monitors as well as to your Washington staff, and 
that it will prove useful in checking Korean names at the tine they are 
first heard on the air, Additional names will be made availzble as our 
information increases, 

25X1A7b 


We are informed that G-2, 24th Corps, Seoul, has been forwarding 
North Korean periodicals and newspapers to in order that the 
North Korean jargon and proper names, when broadcasted from Pyongyang, 
may be more intelligible to the monitors. Systematic use of such publi- 
shed information may obviate much of the difficultics that now exist. 
However, it would be most helpful if names and official positions of 
North Korean personalities, when cbtained from such sources, could be 
transmitted to this Division for use in expanding the enclosed "directory", 
and correctly identifying Korean names which appear in FBIB reports for the 
first time. For this purpose, it would be necessary to include not only 
the correct romanization of each name according to the McCune-Reischauer 
system but also the characters and the current position if known. 


This office will be glad to cooperate with you in resolving the above 
difficulties in any manner possible. 


Enclosures igoc. <2 JB & 


x. 


3 eopies of » list of prominent 
25X1A9a North Korcuns. 


Approved For Release 2000/08/9F ST IRARDRT p,00662R000100070042-1 


-- oa 
qe Sd 

later Sle ee ee 
abe. : ee 


