copy no. 7.5 


FOR THE DEPUTY DIRS CTOR 


OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE 


CONSEQUENCES OF US TROOP WITHDRAWAL 
FROM KOREA IN SPRING, 1949 


CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM 
RELEASE IN FULL 


ORE 3-49 
Published 28 February 1949 
ieee 


eeQatin 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY gqoscy 
chtinsiah 


VEAECT ep gn 
“3 A ; a ian on 
A3Z3TOZ s/t 


DISSEMINATION NOTICE 


1. This copy of this publication is for the information and use of the recipient 
designated on the front cover and of individuals under the jurisdiction of the recipient's 
office who require the information for the performance of their official duties. Further 
dissemination elsewhere in the department to other offices which require the informa- 
tion for the performance of official duties may be authorized by the following: 


a. Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Research and Intelligence, for 
the Department of State 


. Director of Intelligence, GS, USA, for the Department of the Army 
. Chief, Naval Intelligence, for the Department of the Navy 
. Director of Intelligence, USAF, for the Department of the Air Force 


. Director of Security and Intelligence, AEC, for the Atomic Energy Com- 
mission 


. Deputy Director for Intelligence, Joint Staff, for the Joint Staff 


g. Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA, for any other 
Department or Agency 


on a Co 


“ 


2. This copy may be either retained or destroyed by burning in accordance with 
applicable security regulations, or returned to the Central Intelligence Agency by 
arrangement with the Office of Collection and Dissemination, CIA. 


DISTRIBUTION: 


Office of the President 

National Security Council 
National Security Resources Board 
Department of State 

Office of Secretary of Defense 
Department of the Army 
Department of the Navy 
Department of the Air Force 
State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee 
Joint Chiefs of Staff 

Atomic Energy Commission 
Research and Development Board 


CONSEQUENCES OF US TROOP WITHDRAWAL FROM KOREA IN SPRING, 1949 


SUMMARY 


Withdrawal of US forces from Korea in the spring of 1949 would probably in time 
be followed by an invasion, timed to coincide with Communist-led South Korean revolts, 
by the North Korean People’s Army possibly assisted by small battle-trained units from 
Communist Manchuria. Although it can be presumed that South Korean security 
forces will eventually develop sufficient strength to resist such an/invasion, they will 
not have achieved that capability by the spring of 1949. It is unlikely that such 
strength will be achieved before January 1950. Assuming that Korean Communists 
would make aggressive use of the opportunity presented them, US troop withdrawal 
would probably result in a collapse of the US-supported Republic of Korea, an event 
which would seriously diminish US prestige and adversely affect US security interests 
in the Far East. 


In contrast, continued presence in Koréa of a moderate US force, would not only 
discourage the threatened invasion but would assist in sustaining the will and ability 
of the Koreans themselves to resist any future invasion once they had the military 
force to do so and, by sustaining the new Republic, maintain US prestige in the Far East. - 


Note: The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, Navy, and the Air Force have 
concurred in this report. For a dissent by the Intelligence Division, Department of the 
Army, see Enclosure A, p. 7. The information herein is as of 24 February 1949. 


1 TOP ET 


4 


CONSEQUENCES OF US TROOP WITHDRAWAL FROM KOREA IN SPRING, 1949 
Assumptions: 

1. Final US troop withdrawal would begin before June 1949; 

2. Economic and military aid, to the extent presently projected would continue; 

3. Continued antagonism between northern and southern Koreans to a degree 
presenting a constant danger of open hostilities. 

Despite the real progress toward stability that has been achieved by the Republic 
of Korea in both political and military fields, it is doubtful if the Republic could survive 
a withdrawal of US troops in the immediate future. While Korean security forces now 
have the capability of maintaining internal security in the face of opposition from 
strong and efficient underground Communist forces in South Korea (see ORE 32-48), 
they are neither sufficiently trained nor sufficiently experienced to undertake actions 
requiring coordination on regimental and brigade levels. Such coordinated action - 
would be necessary against the large-scale border penetrations and simultaneous coun-. 
trywide internal disorders which would undoubtedly follow the withdrawal of US troops. 
In the face of combined invasion and uprising, in which local Communists and the North 
Koreans People’s Army might have the assistance of battle-trained Communist units 
from Manchuria, as well as Soviet aid and advice, the maximum capability of Korean 
security forces would be control of certain isolated urban and rural areas. Despite a 
large turnover of personnel resulting from the recently instituted Screening system 
calculated to rid the ranks of infiltrating Communists, the Army has added a consider- 
able number of recruits in the past few months and has now reached a strength of 
65,000. The present schedule calls for completion of all basic, battalion, and regi- 
mental training by 1 June 1949. It is estimated that an additional six months, at 
least, will be necessary to develop proficiency with organic equipment in large-scale 
field operations. Additional training in countering guerrilla techniques would enable 
the security forces to deal more effectively with large-scale Communist infiltrations. 
‘ Completion of such additional training would be necessary before any appreciable ability 
to resist invasion could be guaranteed. 

If US troops are withdrawn before the security forces of the Republic of Korea 
achieve such capabilities, they will not inspire confidence among their people, and 
until the people possess this confidence, a spirit of defeatism will grow; popular support 
of the government will diminish, and its will to resist Communist encroachment will be 
undermined. Although Soviet propaganda has been able to exploit the inherent 
Korean sentiment against foreign interference, the majority of thinking Koreans in 
the South have come to accept the continued presence of US troops as a condition 
necessary to free survival. 

The presence of the American Mission in Korea (AMIK)? and the United Nations 
Commission on Korea (UNCOK), after the withdrawal of US troops, would mitigate 


*AMIK includes the Diplomatic Mission, the ECA Mission, and the Provisional Military 
_ Advisory Group (PMAG). AMIK is generally responsible for Supply and training of the Korean 


security force. 
2 ror lowe 


vo flo 


the adverse effects of the withdrawal on the will of the southern Koreans to resist 
Communist revolts and invasions. Their presence probably would not, however, pre- 
‘vent the disintegration of the Republic of Korea and eventual Communist domination 
4if US troops are withdrawn before the Korean security forces are capable of resisting a 
combination of external and internal attacks. 


1. EFFECTS IN JAPAN AND SOUTHEAST ASIA. 


a. Political and Psychological. 

The political and psychological consequences of US troop withdrawal from 
Korea would be felt most acutely in Japan. Although many J apanese may anticipate 
eventual Communist domination of all Korea as a logical development, the impact of 
actuality would be considerable. Japanese fear of Communist power would increase 
along with doubts of US willingness or ability to defend Japan." The J apan Communist 
Party would be strengthened by easier communication with Communist forces across 
the Tsushima straits and by the adherence of opportunistic converts. Similar political 
and psychological effects would follow to a lesser degree in other Far Eastern countries. 
Groups who have received or hoped for US support might question the sincerity of US 
intentions to oppose Communism and might feel forced to collaborate with heartened 
native Communists and assume a more moderate attitude toward the USSR. 

b. Military. 

Assuming that US troop withdrawal meant consolidation of Communist con- 
trol over all Korea, the USSR would be able to develop bases in the South from which 
they could launch air, airborne, or amphibious attacks on Japan, Formosa, and the 
Ryukyus, or submarine forays against shipping in Japanese waters. 

c. Economic. 

Economic consequences, as such, would be unimportant. Japan would lose a 
potential small market for industrial goods and a potential producer of rice. The USSR 
would gain an additional source of unskilled labor for projects in the Soviet Far East. 
The potential contribution of consumer goods, particularly textiles, might also enhance 
the total productive effort of an integrated Korean-Manchurian-Soviet Far East 
economy. : 


d. Propaganda. 

US troop withdrawal would, of course, enhance the US position by weakening 
Soviet propaganda on the issue of imperialism and aggression, but it would subject 
Koreans to inevitable terror propaganda that would play upon their isolated position 
in the Far East. Furthermore, it must be realized that the probable subsequent col- 
lapse of the Republic of Korea would be a news item of such magnitude as to offset any 
favorable propaganda effects that had been achieved either in Korea or in the Far 
East generally. 


TOE year 


Withdrawal of US troops stationed in South Korea would permit consolidation 
of US Far Eastern troop strength in the home islands of Japan and also eliminate 
the danger of having some forces in an untenable position in the event of hostilities 
with the USSR. Against this gain, however, must be weighed the fact that such with- 
drawal would allow immediate exploitation of South Korea by the USSR. Bases built 
there before the outbreak of hostilities would greatly assist Soviet forces in their war 
task of interdicting US positions in Japan, the Ryukyus, and the Philippines. In other 
Far Eastern countries, US withdrawal could and probably would be interpreted as weak- 
ness, and might further contribute to the fundamental realignment of forces in the 
Far East in favor of the Soviet Union for “practical reasons.” 


2. Errects on US SeEcuriry. 


(For a discussion of Korean strategic and economic problems and of the contribu- 
tion of US tactical troops to South Korean stability, see Appendix.) 


real 


APPENDIZ 


Korea’s STRATEGIC VALUE 
a, Geographic Considerations. 

A major military power holding Korea would be in a favorable position to 
dominate the Sea of Japan, the Yellow Sea, and the Gulf of Chihli, to threaten the 
Soviet Maritime Province and southern Manchuria by ground attack; to threaten 
Japan and adjacent mainland areas by air, airborne, and amphibious attack, and to 
threaten targets deep within the USSR and China by long-range air attack. The Soviet 
Union, by means of interior lines of communication and relative proximity to sources 


of supply could maintain a military position in Korea at much less cost and effort 
than could the US. 


b. Military Importance. , \ 

Southern Korea's strategic importance to the US rests principally on the fact 
that its denial to the USSR prior to an outbreak of general hostilities would prevent 
the development of advanced bases from which Soviet forces could threaten or neutralize 
US operational bases in Japan and the Ryukyus immediately upon any outbreak of 
hostilities. Such value as southern Korea would have as a defensive or offensive US 
base after the start of war with the USSR would, however, tend to be negated to the US 
by the scope of military operations required to hold and maintain a position there. 
Unless the US strategic plan permitted employment of the major forces necessary to 
maintain a base there, any US force present in southern Korea at the outbreak of 
hostilities would have to be written off or evacuated. 


The present function of US troops in South Korea is purely psychological but 
no less important for that reason. Aside from the entirely unlikely event that the 
USSR would be willing to risk war over the issue of Korea, it is most improbable, so 
long as US forces are present, that Soviet troops would participate in an invasion of 
South Korea. It is similarly less likely that the North Koreans themselves, with or 
without other Communist aid, would make war on the South. It is obvious, however, 
that should an invasion take place despite their presence, US forces would either have 
to furnish active assistance to the South Korean Republic or be withdrawn, with 
serious loss of US prestige. 


In the absence of US troops, it is highly probable that northern Koreans alone, 
or northern Koreans assisted by other Communists, would invade southern Korea and 
subsequently call upon the USSR for assistance. Soviet control or occupation of south- 
ern Korea would be the result. 

The armed forces of southern Korea, although completely dependent on the 
US for training and logistic support, are of considerable strategic significance to the 
US insofar as they enhance the security of Japan. If fully developed, the Korean 
Army could, by itself, deny southern Korea’s exploitation as a Communist offensive 


TOP 


a 


base in the period prior to an open attack by either major units of the Chinese Com- 
munist forces or by the USSR. The security of US bases in Japan would thus be 
enhanced while the strain on US manpower involved in occupying southern Korea 
would be decreased. Furthermore, if the Korean Army were specially trained in guer- 
rilla warfare techniques, it might continue to serve US Strategic interests by carrying 
on guerrilla warfare against a Soviet occupation. 


c. Economic Importance. 


Southern Korea, as a separate entity apart from northern Korea, has a deficit 
economy and is a liability to the US. The area can supply no strategic raw materials 
other than small amounts of tungsten and graphite. Only the intensive application 
of imported chemical fertilizers can bring about the surplus rice production which would 
increase Korean economic and political stability as well as contribute to the feeding of 
US-occupied Japan. Industrial production, presently insufficient for domestic require- 
ments, is confined mainly to consumer goods. It is not of strategic value to the US 
except to the degree that rehabilitation and development may reduce the economic 
strain on the US involved in sustaining the economy. 


Southern Korea is of some potential economic significance to the US in that 
integration of the economy of the Republic of Korea with economies of J: apan, Formosa, 
and the Philippine Islands could result in a greater degree of economic stability in all 
the countries concerned. 


d. Political Importance. 


Survival of the Republic of Korea in the southern zone is strategically impor- 
tant to the US. The Republic not only serves as a deterrent to physical infiltration of 
Communist agents into Japan but, more important, represents for the Japanese and 
other nationals in the Far East, a symbol of US determination to resist further 
encroachments of Communist forces in eastern Asia. The Republic of Korea is one con- 
crete evidence that the US is sincere in its professions of support for the struggle of the 
Far Eastern world against Communism. The continued survival of the Republic of 
Korea would be proof to the peoples of the Far East that Communist domination is not 
inevitable and would lessen the psychological impact of the fall of China. 

US tactical forces in Korea now number approximately 8,000 as opposed to the 
original force of over 40,000. Their task has been reduced or has been turned over to 
indigenous institutions as the latter developed strength and efficiency. US troops today 
are only concerned with serving as a limited reserve which might be used to assist 
Korean security forces in maintaining internal order and Stability; * as a deterrent to, 
but not an absolute guarantee against, an overt invasion by northern Korean forces; 
and, most important, as concrete and visible evidence to the Korean Army and to the 
Korean people generally that the US continues to support their government against 
threatened Communist domination. 


*Present Army forces in Korea are not charged, except indirectly, with assisting Korean 
security forces in maintaining internal order. United States troops, according to their present 
instructions, may intervene to maintain internal order in Korea only if attacked or if required 
to protect US nationals or property. 


rfc 


ENCLOSURE “A” 
DISSENT BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY 


1. The Intelligence Division, Department of the Army, dissents from ORE 3-49, 
Consequences of US Troop Withdrawal from Korea in Spring, 1949. The Intelligence 
Division does not believe that US troop withdrawal would be the major factor in the 
collapse of the Republic of Korea. Neither does the Intelligence Division believe that 
“such withdrawal would allow immediate exploitation of South Korea by the USSR.” 


2. The Intelligence Division believes that an invasion of South Korea by the 
North Korean People’s Army is a possibility at present, and recognizes that the likeli- 
hood of such an invasion will increase Somewhat, following the departure of United 
States troops. However, the Intelligence Division considers that an invasion is a pos- 
sibility, rather than a probability, for the following reasons: 


a. Action short of invasion might bring about the result desired by North 
Korean and, presumably, Soviet authorities, without incurring the risks involved in a 
military operation. Such action could include the instigation of Communist-led dis- 
turbances in South Korea, the infiltration into the south of armed and trained agents 
and guerrillas, and continuation of border incidents on the 38th parallel. 


b. The People’s Army still is a relatively small, although well trained and 
efficient, military force. At present it does not have, of itself, the preponderance of 
strength over South Korean military forces which would be required to insure victory 
in an armed struggle. The People’s Army, as a force in being, may well be considered 
by North Korean authorities to have greater value as a constant threat than if it were 
committed to a military adventure which conceivably could result in its defeat or in 
expenditure of its strength without proportionate returns. 


3. The Intelligence Division concludes, for the reasons cited above, that an in- 
vasion of South Korea by North Korean forces is a possibility rather than a probability 
at the present time; and further, that this State will continue until such time as South 
Korean military forces are reduced to such a state as to render them incapable of resist- 
ing significant North Korean military action. 


4. Further, it is the belief of the Intelligence Division that political and economic 
factors other than the presence or absence of United States troops will have a decisive 
influence on the future course of events in Korea, and that the continued maintenance 
of a small United States Army force in South Korea would be only a relatively minor 
psychological contribution to the stability of the Republic of Korea. If continued eco- 
nomic and military aid to the Republic of Korea, to the extent presently projected, plus 
the presence of a United Nations Commission, are not sufficient to sustain South Korean 
morale and will to resist Communist expansion, it appears doubtful that the presence 
of a small United States combat force would do so. 


a reflrons 


U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
3484--STATE—1949 


