a/ 


126 
COPY NO. 
FOR THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
FOR REPORTS AND ESTIMATES 
A 
44765 


COMMUNIST CAPABILITIES 
IN SOUTH KOREA 


CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM 
RELEASE IN FULL 


ORE 32-48 
Published 21 February 1949 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


~— 


i” fae 


DISSEMINATION NOTICE 


1. This copy of this publication is for the information and use of the recipient 
designated on the front cover and of individuals under the jurisdiction of the recipient’s 
office who require the information for the performance of their official duties. Further 
dissemination elsewhere in the department to other offices which require the informa- 
tion for the performance of official duties may be authorized by the following: 


a. Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Research and Intelligence, for 
the Department of State 


. Director of Intelligence, GS, USA, for the Department of the Army 
. Chief, Naval Intelligence, for the Department of the Navy 
. Director of Intelligence, USAF, for the Department of the Air Force 


. Director of Security and Intelligence, AEC, for the Atomic Energy Com- 
mission 


. Deputy Director for Intelligence, Joint Staff, for the Joint Staff 


g. Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA, for any other 
Department or Agency 


oe ao of! 


— 


2. This copy may be either retained or destroyed by burning in accordance with 
applicable security regulations, or returned to the Central Intelligence Agency by 
arrangement with the Office of Collection and Dissemination, CIA. 


DISTRIBUTION: 


Office of the President 

National Security Council 
National Security Resources Board 
Department of State 

Office of Secretary of Defense 
Department of the Army 
Department of the Navy 
Department of the Air Force 
State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee 
Joint Chiefs of Staff 

Atomic Energy Commission 
Research and Development Board 


DRE 32-48 afte: 


COMMUNIST CAPABILITIES IN SOUTH KOREA 


SUMMARY 


Communist capabilities in South Korea are now at a low level and probably will be 
further reduced if the Republic continues its present trend toward increased stability. 

The network of Communist organizations in South Korea is designed to provide 
control mechanisms for every segment of society and is sufficiently broad to draw new 
members from all classes should a severe economic crisis cause popular discontent and 
a swing to the left. The number of South Koreans who have consistently braved 
various degrees of police action to assist the Communist program may exceed 600,000, 
while the total number of Koreans enrolled in Communist front organizations may 
exceed 10 percent of the 20 million population. Underground combat organizations 
under Communist control and leadership are scattered throughout the mountain areas 
of South Korea and present a continuing threat to internal security. 

The Communists in South Korea are under the direct control of Soviet agents in 
North Korea. Their adherence to the Moscow line has incurred the hostility and 
distrust of Korean nationalists, and periodic mass arrests of Communist leaders have 
forced them to concentrate organizational efforts on rebuilding party channels and 
strengthening the underground forces. The anti-Communist program undertaken 
by the Republic of Korea, since its inauguration in August 1948, has forced many Com- 
munist leaders to flee to the North. 

The Communists have failed to control labor and have lost the ability they possessed 
in September 1946 to call a general strike. They have, however, improved their tech- 
nique of coordinated sabotage as demonstrated in the anti-election campaign of Febru- 
ary 1948. They have devoted considerable effort, with some success, to infiltrating 
youth groups, political parties, the security forces, and the government on all levels. 

Current Communist propaganda is aimed at creating confusion, fear, and de- 
featism in the South. The constant threat of invasion from the North and the 
susceptibility of the isolated villagers to propaganda can be exploited by the Com- 
munists to produce these results in local areas. But the Communists have lost the 
advantage they possessed in the fall of 1948 when it appeared to the Koreans that the 
US was about to withdraw alli troops, leaving the infant Republic to face alone the 
combined forces of Communism in the Far East. Favorable UN action on Korea, the 
expectancy of continued US aid under ECA, and the moderate success of security forces 
in suppressing the guerrillas have restored confidence in their future among the people 
and officials of South Korea. 

The mission of the Communist forces in South Korea is to assist in carrying out 
the Soviet plan for the eventual absorption of South Korea into the Korean Democratic 
Peoples Republic by undermining popular government support through the creation 


Note: The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, Army, Navy, and the Air Force 
have concurred in this report. The information herein is as of 10 February 1949. 


1 SE 


softs 


of political and economic chaos, dissipating the military strength of the Republic, and 
developing the conviction that Communist domination fs inevitable, thereby achieving 
a favorable psychological climate for opportunist “coalition” with the north. 

The present Communist strength in South Korea does not appear great enough to 
support a sustained, country-wide campaign that would accomplish this mission. The 
Imitation of their future potential, however, depends primarily on the ability of gov- 
ernment officials and the people to resolve their personal or party differences in present- 
ing a united front to the Communists, and on the ability of the government to insure 
a minimum standard of living for both the farmer and the urban worker. 


fen 


COMMUNIST CAPABILITIES IN SOUTH KOREA 


1. Srze anp ORGANIZATION OF THE SouTH KorEaAN COMMUNIST Parry. 
a. Size. 


There may be fewer than 10,000 Communist Party card holders in South Korea 
among an estimated population of 20,000,000; but this figure has little significance as 
an indication of Communist strength. The number of South Koreans who have con- 
sistently braved various degrees of police action to assist the Communist program may 
exceed 600,000. Through the usual technique of interlocking directorates, the relatively 
small group of loyal and experienced Communists control political, social, and cultural 
organizations whose total membership may exceed 10 percent of the population. In 
addition to the members of the Communist Front organizations who have generally 
followed the party line, many more Koreans may be susceptible to Communist propa- 
ganda and leadership on specific or local issues. 


Communist prestige, based on their leadership of Nationalist resistance to the 
Japanese, was highest at the time of liberation. In the absence of other political 
leadership, the Communists were able to assume leadership of the grass-roots inde- 
pendence movement which found expression in the establishment of the People’s Com- 
mittees throughout Korea in August 1945. In the following months, however, the 
Communists, by espousing USSR rather than Nationalist objectives, dissipated a sub- 
stantial portion of their prestige and incurred the enmity of significant groups of the 
population. 


Although membership in the Communist Party or its front organization was 
technically legal during the period of American Military Government, the police gen- 
erally regarded the Communists as rebels and traitors who should be seized, imprisoned, 
and sometimes shot on the slightest provocation. All Communist activity was officially 
outlawed with the passage of the Law on the Nation’s Public Peace in November 1948. 
Communists have become a militant underground force, not a part of normal com- 
munity life throughout most of South Korea today. 


b. Organization. 


The Communist organization in South Korea is designed to provide control 
mechanisms for every segment of society. It is, in fact, a state within a state under 
the absolute control of USSR-approved leaders. The Communist “front” organizations 
include political parties, labor unions, cultural and intellectual societies, farmers as- 
sociations, and youth groups. In addition, the Communists have developed under- 
ground militant organizations to serve as their revolutionary striking force. The net- 
work of front organizations is sufficiently broad to allow the entrance of new members 
from all classes of society should a severe economic crisis or repressive government 
security measures cause popular discontent and a swing to the left. 


a 
(1) External Relations. 


Party policies for the Communist organization in South Korea are formu- 
lated in the North by Soviet personnel and transmitted by messengers, either to the 
Central Committee in Seoul via the Haeju office, or, in some cases, directly to local 
Communist guerrilla units by radio or by messengers traveling south by land or sea. 
At the present time, Kim Tan Ya, one of the founders of the Korean Communist Party 
in 1925, is reported to be the official Korean representative in Moscow. In addition 
to relations with Moscow through Soviet representatives in North Korea, the South 
Korean Communists are known to have contacts with the Japan Communist Party 
through the Communist elements of the League of Koreans Residing in Japan and with 
the Chinese Communist Party, whose agents have appeared in South Korea on both 
commercial and intelligence missions. 


(2) Communist Front Organizations. a 
The Democratic Peoples Front is the all-inclusive Communist front in 
southern Korea. It was formed in February 1946 under the leadership of the Com- 
munist Party to unite all “democratic-social” groups. The Front served as a central 
control agency through which leaders of the Communist Party, and later the South 
Korean Labor Party, could issue instructions and control the many social and political 
member organizations. 


(a) South Korea Labor Party. 

The South Korea Labor Party (SKLP) contains the core of Communist 
organization and discipline in the South. It was formed in September 1946 when Pak 
Hun Yong, acting on orders from North Korea, technically disbanded the South 
Korean Communist Party and formed the SKLP in its place. The party headquarters 
is divided between Seoul and the town of Haeju, located just across the border in North 
Korea. The group in Haeju transmits instructions to Seoul for dissemination through- 
out the party network in the South and receives reports from the South for transmittal 
to the North Korean Communist Party and Soviet agents. The party network in the 
South extends from the Central Committee in Seoul, through the Provincial Commit- 
tees, the city, county or district committees, and down to the cells. Cells exist in all 
factories, mines, villages, shops, schools, military units, and urban residential blocks 
where there are three or more Communists and permission for the formation of a cell 
has been obtained from the local committee. 

(b) Youth Groups. 

The militant Korean Democratic Patriotic Youth Alliance is the prin- 
cipal organization for Communist youth. It began as the Communist Youth Alliance, 
changed its name to the Democratic Youth Alliance, was outlawed by American Military 
Government for terroristic activities in April 1947, but continues to serve underground 
as a strong-arm force for the SKLP in all forms of terrorism and propaganda activity. 

(c) Labor Front. 


The Communist effort to organize South Korea’s few industrial work- 
ers has been channeled through the Council of AU Korean Labor Unions (Chung Pyung). 


4 Ss ET 


: a 


The Chung Pyung was discredited by its final failure and violence in the initially 
successful general strikes of October 1946. Since that date, it has failed several times, 
notably in February 1948, to instigate general strikes. The rightist Dai Han Labor 
League now controls labor in all significant industries and Communist efforts to infil- 
trate this union have met with limited success. 

(d) Farmers’ Front. 

The large and underprivileged farm population has been the principal 
target of Communist propaganda and organizational activity since the Liberation. 
Communist potential to promote disorder and unrest among farmers remains high, but 
despite great efforts of the party-line All Korean Farmers Alliance and other Com- 
munist agencies, the farmers have been slow to join Communist groups. Physically 
isolated rural settlements are typical of South Korea. This isolation, as well as the 
pervading Confucian influence upon personal relations, promotes unity under the 
village head—a unity that extends to unified reaction—favorable or unfavorable—to 
new ideas. Thus it is possible to find villages completely dominated by Communist 
ideology in areas generally controlled by extreme rightists. This phenomenon {is 
explained by the susceptibility of the peasants to Communist propaganda on the farm 
tenancy problem, the hostility to the rice collection program, and unified reaction to 
new ideas, and is widespread in Cholla Namdo, Cholla Pukto, Kyongsang Namdo, and 
Kyongsang Pukto, the principal areas of Communist strength. 

(e) Cultural Front. 

Leftist influence has also been extended to many of the intelligentsia 
through the Central League of All Korean Cultural Groups. Although government 
police action has restricted the expansion of the “cultural” fronts in South Korea, they 
continue to exercise considerable influence upon students, journalists, writers and 
scientists. 

The party line has not been a major feature in many of the cultural 
associations, but they are important a vehicles and serve as a cover for 
illegal Communist activity. 

(3) Muitant Groups. 

Underground militant organizations under Communist control and lead- 
ership, the most important tools for the USSR’s long-range program, are combat groups 
known collectively as the People’s Liberation Army or the Action Vanguard Corps, 
consisting of separate guerrilla units. A Military Bureau, parallel with the Pro- 
vincial Central Committee of the SKLP, is responsible for the organization and activi- 
ties of the various forces within each province. In some provinces, at least, each town 
and village is in turn directly subordinate to the Provincial Bureau, and all direc- 
tives emanating from the Bureau are rapidly disseminated to the local units. The 
existence of a centralized coordinating authority higher than the Provincial Bureaus 
has not been confirmed, nor is it known to what extent the SKLP issues specific direc- 
tives to the guerrillas. However, as in South Korean Communist activities in general, 
it is known that important orders originate in Pyongyang and are transmitted to 
South Korea through agents who cross the 38th parallel daily. Trained organizers 


5 sof 


a 


are dispatched from the North to assist in planning activities and in teaching guerrilla 
tactics. 

Guerrilla strength fluctuates widely, depending on activities. South 
Korean groups are being steadily reinforced by special units infiltrating from the 
North. Casualties during periodic police actions serve to reduce their numbers, and, 
during periods of inactivity, many non-party guerrillas return to their homes and 
resume an outward appearance of normal life. During active periods, the guerrillas 
are likely to gain spot recruits among non-Communists who may be aroused by police 
brutality or unpopular government measures such as forced rice collections. 

The island of Cheju-Do has long been a center of guerrilla strength and 
activity. Police brutality, the venality of public officials, and the historic clannish- 
ness of the islanders contribute to the discontent which trained Communists have 
fanned into chronic revolt. Recently, indiscriminate guerrilla activity against villages 
has caused many formerly sympathetic civilians to assist security forces in combing the 
hills, and the first mass surrenders of guerrillas on Cheju-Do have since been reported. 

The South Korean guerrillas are estimated to have about half their forces 
armed only with bamboo spears and the rest with Japanese rifles or carbines and M-1’s 
captured from security forces or contributed by mutineers. A few trucks, machine 
guns, and mortars fell into guerrilla hands during the recent Constabulary revolts. 
There undoubtedly will be an attempt to increase the small-scale fow of arms from 
North Korea. Other supplies are obtained through forced donations of money, rice, 
clothing, and miscellaneous equipment. Most of the barren mountain areas where 
the guerrillas seek refuge are far distant from a sympathetic population. As a result, 
the guerrillas must resort to raiding hostile lowland areas for food and are then exposed 
to police action. 

Guerrilla training schools are located in South Korean mountain hide- 
outs and in the North. Courses extend from two weeks to six months and include tac- 
tics, discipline, sabotage and espionage training, as well as indoctrination in the basic 
elements of Communism and techniques of propaganda. Discipline in the schools is 
strict, and continuous adherence to prescribed rules is enforced. The action of Decem- 
ber 1948, against guerrillas in Kwangwon-do, however, indicated that their morale 
and training were far below the level expected from Soviet-schooled personnel. Many 
guerrillas gave in without offering resistance, and their indoctrination in Communism 
appeared to be superficial. 


2. ESTIMATE OF ANTI-COMMUNIST STRENGTH. 


The old Korean traditions, based on historical continuity, racial and cultural 
homogeneity, and an intense pride in their past, survived forty years of Japanization 
and continues to resist both Soviet-sponsored Communism and Western style democ- 
racy. In addition, a stronger spirit of nationalism developed as a reaction to Japa- 
nese occupation and was further intensified by the liberation. The overwhelming 
majority of the people in South Korea are anti-Communist. This feeling, however, is 
more a revulsion against Communist terrorism and individual Communists, who are 
patently the agents of a foreign power, than a politically sophisticated rejection of 


6 of: 


softer 


Communist ideology. The long-suffering South Korean farmers, who comprise 80 
percent of the population, will support the government or party that appears most 
capable of providing them with land ownership, fertilizer, low taxes, consumer goods, 
and a minimum of police brutality. 

The small industrial labor class has demonstrated an inability to perform its 
theoretical function as the revolutionary vanguard and has generally accepted the 
leadership of nationalists whose views represent a unique Far Eastern blend of social- 
ism and capitalism. Anti-Communist feeling is especially strong among those with a 
vested interest in the Republic of Korea. The police, who have been the frequent 
targets of Communist violence, are generally willing to take action against known 
or suspected Communists without recourse to judicial processes. The government is 
bitterly anti-Communist and is taking severe measures to curtail all Communist 
activity. , 

In the final analysis, anti-Communist strength depends on the ability of the gov- 
ernment to develop political unity, a viable economy, a loyal and efficient security 
force, and to gain international support. (See ORE 44-48, Prospects for Survival of the 
Republic of Korea.) The Republic has been accorded diplomatic recognition by sev- 
eral powers including the United States and is supported by the UN. The current 
three-year program of US economic and military assistance will contribute to sus- 
taining the economy, developing efficient security forces, and give impetus to the 

trend toward increased governmental stability and greater anti-Communist strength. 


3. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES. 
a. Organizing Activity. 


There were two factions in the Korean Communist Party when the Liberation 
in 1945 permitted the first open Communist activity in the country. The Nationalist 
faction (led by Lee Yung) submitted to a merger with the pro-Soviet faction (led by 
Pak Hun Yung) in September 1945. Although Pak’s leadership along a strict Stalinist 
line has since dominated the party, the inherent strength of Korean nationalism 
has, at times, weakened party discipline and has resulted in the withdrawal of several 
prominent party members. 


In 1945, party leaders in South Korea felt that the proletariat was politically 
too immature for successful revolution and, lacking the actual presence of USSR 
forces, the Communists advocated a united front of all liberal and leftist elements as 
the best way to achieve their objectives. 


Early in 1946, Soviet policies forced the South Korean Communists to follow 
a pro-trusteeship line that incurred the hostility and distrust of Korean nationalists. 
The united front movement collapsed, but vigorous organizational activity continued 
in the attempt to enroll farmers, laborers, youth, and the intelligentsia in groups 
where they could be indoctrinated in the party line and used to further Communist 
objectives. Periodic mass arrests of Communist leaders, particularly since August 
1947, have forced them to concentrate on rebuilding party channels and strengthening 


7 f* 


- 


the underground forces. The anti-Communist program undertaken by the Govern- 
ment of the Republic of Korea, since its inauguration in August 1948, has undoubtedly 
further restricted all types of organizational activity. Several thousand SKLP mem- 
bers or suspected Communists have been arrested. Many others have chosen escape 
to the North rather than the party praise and prestige that would follow imprisonment 
for revolutionary activity in the South. 


b. Strikes and Sabotage. 


Labor strikes and industrial sabotage are a major activity of the South Korean 
Communists. While improving their technique of sabotage, they have lost the ability 
to call general strikes owing to the success of the rightist Dai Han Labor League in 
gaining control of labor in all significant industries. In September 1946, the Com- 
munists, with the assistance of leaders from the North, were able to paralyze South 
Korea by striking the railroads, shipyards, public utilities, and postal systems, but an 
attempt to repeat this success in February 1948 resulted only in minor and short-lived 
work stoppages. On the other hand, the inefficient mass disorder technique used in 
the 1946 general strike has been refined to the technique of well planned and coor- 
dinated sabotage demonstrated in the anti-election campaign of February 1948. In 
one night, the Communists damaged forty locomotives, ripped up tracks in three areas, 
and cut the police lines out of Seoul to every provincial division. Although counter- 
police action was effective and the Communist violence did not succeed in frustrating 
the UN-supervised general election in South Korea, it is significant that extraordinary 
police action was unable to prevent extensive damage to public and private property 
in the spring of 1948. 


c. Infiltration of Government, Security Forces, Political Parties. 


The South Korean Communists, aided by trained agents from the North, 
have devoted considerable effort to infiltrating rightist youth groups and political 
parties, the security forces, and the government on all levels. The most sensational 
evidence of their success was presented when forty members of a Communist cell in 
the 14th Constabulary Regiment instigated a revolt at Yosu in October 1948. Since the 
Yosu revolt, some progress has been made in screening the security forces and removing 
Communist and other dissident elements. Previous incidents had confirmed the wide- 
spread existence of Communist cells in municipal and provincial government bureaus, 
and in the secretarial section of the National Police. Special efforts have been made 
by the Democratic Youth Alliance to infiltrate the various rightist youth groups which 
form the most important pool of manpower for the security forces. The extent of 
Communist infiltration in rightist political parties is not known, but it undoubtedly 
is Slight. Many of the small parties, on the other hand, normally defined as moderate 
or leftist, have been the successful targets of infiltration. 


d. Propaganda. 


Propaganda dissemination, to aid in the accomplishment of the ultimate aim 
of political control, is closely integrated with all Communist activity in the South. 
The Communists have been most efficiently trained and organized for propaganda 


8 a 


f= 


work that includes not only the usual attacks on the United States and the “pro- 
Japanese Korean National Traitors,” but “education” and indoctrination of the masses 
in the Communist way of thinking to obtain widespread adherence to the “party line.” 
Communist propaganda, primarily directed at the masses, is not designed to pro- 
mote rational thinking, but to stir up unreasoned violence and emotions against the 
United States and the Korean Government. 


Current Communist propaganda is aimed at creating confusion, fear, and 
defeatism in the South. The Communist victory in China is cited to prove the inevi- 
tability of Communist domination throughout the Far East. Rumors of invasion from 
the North by an overwhelming force are used to incite fear; distrust of the govern- 
ment is created by allegations that President Rhee and other officials are permitting 
the US to exploit Korea as a colonial possession under the guise of the ECA program. 
The government and the people became increasingly susceptible to this propaganda 
in the fall of 1948: but a rebirth of confidence has resulted from UN recognition, the 
success of the Constabulary in quelling revolts, the extension of the ECA program 
to Korea, and the announcement of the withdrawal of Soviet troops. Korea will 
remain, however, a fertile field for Communist propaganda so long as economic con- 
ditions fail to improve materially, oppressive Security measures are used by the gov- 
ernment, and the spectre remains of vast Communist armies from Manchuria and 
North Korea conquering the South. 


4. Communist CapaBILITIEs IN SourH Korea. 


The present Communist strength in South Korea does not appear great enough 
to support a sustained country-wide campaign that would seriously dissipate the eco- 
nomic or military resources of the government. The Communists can: (1) continue 
to receive reinforcements of trained guerrillas from North Korea; (2) assist an open 
invasion from North Korea by expending all their reserve strength in a coordinated, 
country-wide campaign of sabotage, revolts, assassinations, and propaganda; (3) effect 
limited economic sabotage; (4) continue to commit isolated and coordinated acts of 
violence and terrorism against police, government officials, property, and rural com- 
munities; (5) instigate minor revolts in the armed forces; and (6) create fear and 
confusion in local areas. 


If the Communists in South Korea attempted an all-out campaign against the 
government unsupported by invasion from the north, the major result would be a 
further loss of Communist strength and prestige. Although the nature of the ter- 
rain prevents the effective sealing of the border against infiltrating guerrillas from the 
north, the gain in strength from this source probably will not be sufficient to balance 
losses attributable to continuing counteraction by government security forces. The 
recent revolts in the Constabulary have brought some infiltrated Communists into the 
open, facilitated the vigorous government program for screening the security forces, 
and reduced Communist capabilities of inciting further revolts and infiltrating the 
Security forces. Successful field collaboration between the police and Constabulary 
against the guerrillas has dissipated some of the mutual distrust between these 


suger 


f* 


organizations. But remaining Communist cells in the Constabulary probably continue 
to have the capability of exploiting such bitter feelings as exist toward the police. 

The constant threat of invasion from the north and the susceptibility of the iso- 
lated villagers to propaganda can be exploited by the Communists to create fear and 
confusion in local areas. But the Communists have lost the advantage they pos- 
sessed in the fall of 1948 when it appeared to the Koreans that the US was about to 
withdraw all troops, leaving the infant Republic to face alone the combined forces 
of the North Koreans, the Chinese Communists, the Soviets, and the internal opposi- 
tion. Favorable UN action * on the Republic of Korea, expectancy of continued US 
aid under ECA, and the moderate success of security forces in suppressing the guer- 
rillas, have restored confidence in their future among the people and officials of 
South Korea. 

Communist capabilities in South Korea are now at a low level and probably 
will be further reduced if the economy and security forces continue to be strength- 
ened. They still have a highly controlled and efficient party network capable of 
rapid expansion to take advantage of any unrest or disunity that may develop. The 
limitation of their future potential will depend primarily on the ability of the gov- 
ernment officials and the people to resolve their personal or party differences in pre- 
senting a united front to the Communists, and on the ability of the government to 
insure a minimum standard of living for both the farmer and the urban worker. 


*The UN General Assembly “declares that there has been established a lawful government 
(Government of the Republic of Korea) having effective control and jurisdiction over that part of 
Korea where the Temporary Commission was able to observe and consult and in which a great 
majority of the people of Korea reside; that this Government is based on elections which were 
a valid expression of the free will of the electorate of that part of Korea and which were observed 
by the Temporary Commission; and that this is the only such government in Korea.” 


10 RET 


- 
CHINA few 
Q4ANCHURIA) 


——9 as 
" 4 
FRY t 
Sf . 
a 
ro 
Lt 
(0) TSUSHIMA 
Ka P 
a7) 5 38 


Location of Communist Guerrilia Unit 
(Large: Approximatety 500-1000 persons; Smatt: Approximately 300-500 persons) 
Center of Communist activity, political strength or illegal entry 


Center of Communist activity among organized labor 
Railroad (Standard Gauge) 


4——- Railroad (Narrow Gauge) 


t Scate 1:2,500,000 
A, 0 , ie] 20 40 [¢] 80 100 
0 “ SS eee 
f 9 20 40. 6 80 100 
a, SE eT Kilometers 
cs TA etre = = CNET MENS SAP BOTT SN TIT ENO 


CIA Reproduction 


1949 FEB 24 10 45 


U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
3439—-STATE—1949 


