CLASSIFICATION Cespap-ye 5 25X1A 


t 


Approved For sronrsunp orion iced aga, «3 
INFORMATI REPORT | 
7 ON REPOR CD NO. ae <B1) 


COUNTRY Janan/Xores CONFIDENT; AL DATE DISTR. 4 cm. 


SUBJECT Javanese ~ North Korean Trade ani Contacts NO. OF PAGES. 2 


PLACE 25X1A 


acquireD i 


DATE OF 20X1A , 
2B = ant cA Lyorery eee 70 


ENCLS. 


NO, OF 
(LISTED BELOW) 


1, The Korean Commercial Company (Ghoson Sang Sa Hoe Sa 7 # A $ Ay ie ji% 


financed by North Korean Labor Party capltal at an estimated toree hundred 
mixlion won, has a monopoly over trade between North Korea and Japan and Man~ 
churta, Iie Japanese trade, soon after the formation of the firm in 1946, 
wag iniviated by a vielt to Osaka cf the first general manajer, KWON Ttac-hyong 
(#8 A AY ),and. five other members of the firm, ineluding PaTK Yong~he (y 4%, 
7 3. Segetiations for exchenge of commodities and discussion of political — 
problens continued for eight months. KWON ** and PAK then returned to North 
Korea, Leaving the other firm representatives in Osaka, and trade commenced, 


KRevean Commercial Company personnel, in Oseka have several functions in addi- 
tion te thelr business duties. One of these is to transmit orders trom the 
North forean Labor Party to the Korean Residents’? Association in dapan. A 
eecoml is tc meniter North Korean radio broadcasis daily and to distribate 
illegally to the Japanese Communist Party the information thus obtained, Ih 
is through this means that much North Kerean propaganda 3s brought to both 
Japanese and Kereans in Japan. Other contects between the NKLP and the JOP 
alac follow this channel, . 


baw) 
bu 


3. Trade between the two countries utilizes the water route between Wonsan 
(127-26, 39-10) and Teuruga (1346-0, 35-37). The 3S "Daigai Mara" (KA au ) 
(Daese-bvan in Korean), which is registered in Osaka, freouents the Nerth 
Korean ports. 


4 The nunerous Javanese tecnnicinns wno were in wortwn sores auriig wie wea woo’ 
later vartly dignersed to the USSR and Manchuria as Soviet vrisoners of var. 
Horth Korean authorities, however, managed to retain some essential Jansnese 
technicians, excenting administrative and military versonnel, in the oil ine 
dustry who were willing to stay in the country. At the insistence of the 
South Hangyong Provincial Peovle's Committee, some adjitional versonnel were 
also kent to work in the Hungnam (127-33, 39-52) factory. Jananese techni- 
elans remaining in Xorea were vermitted to organize a Javanese Residents’ As- 
sociation and were given favorable living conditions. Their vay ts eight tines 
that of a Korean worker. ; 


Document No. ._* 


Th No Changs In {>s. 
crass IDENTIAL IK Beciptenn 


: 2 : cts el at 4 Be ei oe es 
[stave AC | Navy D¢[usras | DISKRIBUTIGNT ¢ AAA AAS 
ARMY Lear i T_T] A ER 
7 LES 


+4 jp an 


Le 


This document is hereby regraded to 


CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the RETURN TD RECORDS CENTER 
letter of 138 Cctober 1978 from the he BIR TELY ATER USC 
Director cf Central Intelligence to the 7) 
Approved For Reté a8‘ 2000I05/8 “CFA-RDPBP coas7Roodtbazaenes 2 
Next Review Date: 200 ee 


CONFIDE TY 
. Approved For Release 2000/05/18 : CIA-RDP82-00457R0G4600240002-7 
CEUTRAT, ITELMIG™ CE AGENCY SA 


CONFIDENTIAL 


5, buring 1949, Uerth Korean authorities mace special efforts to bring 
Japanese technicians to Korea, largely beceuse industrial production had 
shown a sharp decrease through incompetent technical handling. Special 
offers vere made to Japanese captured by the Chinese Communists. Pri- 
mary attention, however, was concentrated. on inducing technicians to cone 
in from Jepan. Representatives of the Korecn Commercial Company took 
Jepanese technicians from Korea to Osaka to recruit new personnel illesal- 
Ly without the knowledge of SCP headquarters, 


6. At the beginning of August 1949, seventy Japanese were taken to wWonsan on 
the "Daigad Maru't as guests of the North Korean government. ifter receiving 
‘some indoctrination courses at Pyongyang, forty of tue group were assigned 
to the lungnam factory to increase the production of ammonium sulphate, sul- 
phurie acid, carbide, and other chemicals neaded for trade with Manchuria. 
Other members of the technical group were employed at the wonsan Shipyard, 
in October, and in the Chongjin and Pyongyang itailroad Bureaus. Still 
others wore assigned to the new arsenal under construction in Pyongyang and 
temporaily operating in the basement of KIN Il~song University in Yurimeni 


(44 BG ) tit 
7. if the Japanese technicians sucesed in stepping up production, the North 


Korean government plans to bring increasing numbers of them from Japan to 
serve in northern industry. 


25X1A . 
* [BM Conment: For a discussion of official Korean foreign trade reprosen~ 
‘tation, see . 25X1A 


25X1A 
at HE ccc cnt : KWON T'ae-hyong later left the Korean Cunmercial Company 
& s now working for the Korean Beer Company in Pyongyang. 
| BEXIK 25X1A 25X1X 
tet BE Comment : this factory is to manufacture weapons 
for the invasion of South Korea, This installation is not ta be confused 


with the large Pyongyang ordnance factory which hatbeen operating in Pyong- 
yang. for o considerable tine; see 


court AT. 


Approved For Release 2000/0 NFIRENTIAL o4s7Rooss00240002-7 


