Approved For Rele&$e 2061188765 & OK. ABP HY-00457RUG450 


COUNTRY 
SUBJECT 


PLACE 
ACQUIRED 


CLASSIFICATION sR 


INFORMATION REPORT  ocpno. 


_ 25X1A 
Discharge af North Korean Offictais NO. OF PAGES 2 
NO. OF ENCLS. 
(LISTED BELOW} 
25X1X% SUPPLEMENT TO 


REPORT NO. 


52, AS ADBQDRD. (73 TRANSRIGSION O8 THE ASVELATION & 


va 0.8... 33 AND 
OF ITS CONTENTS [M ANY GANN2R TO AN ORAUTHOLIEED Praga 13 PRO J 


SOURCE 
25X1X 


fae 3 rie 


15 PROMIDITE! 
tr ees 


Pressure from Korean and Chinese elements in Manchuria 4¢ reaulting in the 
removal of officials from North Korean political and government assignments. 
The background of this pressure is as follows: When the Chinese Communists 
advanced into Manchuria in October 1945, with the Korean Volunteer Army ; 
they strengthened their control of the Korean settled areas, particularly 
Chientao Province, by enlisting local Korean Communists to aid them in 
liquidating Manchukuo officials and Korean and Chinese landlords. Koreans 
in Manchuria were urged to join the Chinese Communist Party, and many 
joined who had not previously been Communist. In the subsequent communizing 
program, the Chinese used Korean Communists to dispose of Korean landlords, 
and many Koreans gained great influence and power in Manchuria. 


As the Chinese learned the short Communist background of many of their Man- 
thurian workers, however, they began to force them out of the Ghinese Com= 
munist Party. The policy was to remove all Koreans who had not been 
Communists before the Japanese surrender from all official positions in 
both Manchuria and North Korea. Many of the Korean post-war Communists who 
had returned from Manchuria to North Korea and obtained government positions 
have been subjected to pressure from the Chinese since July 1946, Per- 
sistent demands for their dismissal have been made by WENG Wen-t ?ac 

(# LB ), political commissioner of the Yenkuo (76 5 Special Rep= 
resentative's Office of the Kirin provincial government. 


In consequence, North Korean officiaig who once belonged to the Chinese 
Conmunist Party heave in many cazes been removed from their positions .** among 
those dismissed are: 


a. AN Si-ung ( tf a4 HH), aged 47, a mative of Onsong (130-00, 42-55), 
North Hamgyong Province, who was imprisoned for three years in connec= 
tion with a Communist ineident in North Hameyong during the war but 
who did not join the Chinese Communist Party until after the Japanese 
surrender. He jives in North Hameyong but has no regular residence or 
employment » 


CLASSIFICATION sreng 


MSs 


mm 
SEGA T 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R004600590009-2 
CEUTRAL INTELTIG&ICE AGENCY 


sae CONFIDE 


b; CHI Hi-ky&m (i 4 ), aged 48, a native of Kyongs Sng {129=40, 4i- 
40) County, North Hamgyong Province, He was imprisoned for seven 
Fears because of a Communist incident in Chientao, joined the CCP 
after the war, and became chairman of the Democratic League ( fy E. 
Ai.) in Yenkuo. He later returned to North Korea and obtained a 
fovernment post in Pyongyang, He was expelled from the CCP and lest 
his Job later on; his present location is unknown. 


- 25X1A 


e. KANG Tong-chu. ( & in. ); aged 45, born in Kirin Province and graduate 
of a middle school there, was imprisoned for five years because of the 
30 Way Incident. A building contractor before the war, he joined the 
CCP after the Japanese surrender. Is was appointed chairman of the 
Kirin Provincial Committee for control of commerce and industry, in 
which capacity he was responsible for the death of more than five 
thousand Chinese and Koreans, Upor returning to North Korea, he was 
employed *s a member of the Youth Friendship Party in Hoeryong (129- 
45, h2-25)3; he has no fixed residence in North Korea. 


3. PAE Tong-kon Ft d. it ), aged 4O, a native of Kyongsong, North 
dampyong Province, was imprisoned in So Tae Mun (a * Pl ) Prison for 
ten years for his leadership of the 30 May Incident. He joined the 
COP immediately after the end of the war, In 1947, he was dismissed 
from his position of chairman of the North Hameyong Provineial Con- 
sumers' Coope~ative Society, ostensibly for ambezZlement, but actually 
because he was in disfavor with the party, He returned to Chientaoc, 
where he is now a farmer ; 


a 


PAK Chae~ha ( }} ; (&.? » joined the Chinese Communist Party immediately 
after the war and became vice principal of the Political and Military 
University of Yenkuo, then principal of the Pyongyang Economics College. 
In April 1948, he was arrested aad removed by the Peace Preservation 
Bureau (? State Security Bureau ?) and has not been heard of since, 


f. YIM Kye~hak ( SA PAX PH), after the war, he was dematy mayor of 
famechinetsun (1 ae 27) and chairman of the Yenkuo Liquidation 
Comittee, then, in March 1947, chief of the Pyongyang National Library. 
From this vost he was discharged in October 1947 and nas been unenvloyed 
wince; he lives in Innechingtsun. 


However, one prominent North Xorean member of the Chinese Communist Party who 
joined immediately after the war has been able to maintain his vosition as 
representative of the Korean Commnist Party menbera in Manchuria and as thetr 
liaison officer with the North Korean goveranent at Pyongyang. He is CH'OE 
Mun-ho e:4 x x ), aged 55, a native of Cuscns: his official nrost is on the 
Racial Conmittee (He é El ) at Yencht (120<31, 42055). 


sa Pee sed Yenkuo is unidentified. It is believed that Yenvien may 

be meant. 
ied The actunl reason for the removal of Koreans fron office by 
Chinese Commmist vressure is very doubtful. The forcing out of nost-war 
Communists may be nart of the general international v~urge of vergons whose 
ideological devotion to the varty 1s doubtful and of old-time Communists who 
may have become tainted with nationalism or have incurred warty susvicion of 
their loyalty or usefulness. It is oossible also that the CCP wishes to dis- 
sociate itself from Koreans whose activities in the inredtate veatuvar period 
will not bear too close scrutiny and from versons whose nemberahio in the 
party was a ratter of exvediency or onvortunism, as well as from non=Chinese 
elenents. 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R004600590009-2 


