Bt BAe Je 


elease 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600300263-6. 


at % 


Sanitized Copy Approved for R 


r 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL.” <} AMAT DNR 
wi ay dich a 
ae CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPOR 50X1-HUM §& 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


ei COUNTRY China; North Korea DATE OF 
; INFORMATION 1950 

SUBJECT Economic - Communications, telegraph 
HOW DATE DIST. At Apr 1950 
PUBLISHED Daily newspaper 

. WHERE 4 

: “PUBLISHED Hong Kong NO. OF PAGES 
DATE 
PUBLISHED 29 Jan 1950 
SUPPLEMENT TO 

LANGUAGE Chinese REPORT NO. 


TALS DOCUMENT CONTAINS IHFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
OF THE UNITED STATES WITHIN TUE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT 60 
U. 8. C., Bt AND 92,48 AMENDED. STS TRANSMISSION OR THE REVELATION 
OF ITS CONTENTS [IN ANY MAHNER TO AM UNAUTHORIZED PERSON 19 PRO- 
WIGITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM IS PROMINITED. 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


SOURCE Wen-hui Pao. 


CHINA AND NORT2 KOREA SIGN TELEGRAPH CONVENTION 


Pei-p'ing, 27 January (Hsin-hua) -- China and Korea have ratified a Tele- 
@raph Convention which was Signed by their representatives in Pei-p'ing, 
25 December 1949, and which will go into effect 1 February 1950. The Ministry 
of Posts and Telegrapn has published the complete text of the document » which 
is as follows: 


The Ministry of Posts and Telegraph of the People's Government of the Re- 
public of China, heveinafter referred to as China, and the Ministry of Com- 
munications of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, hereinafter referred 
to as Korea, in order toa open the way for the exchange of telegraph commmnica- 
tions between their two countries » have mutually agreed upon the following arti- 
cles. 


Article 1. Both parties agree to establish and maintain the necessary instal- 
lations and wire conductors for telegraphic connection between the two countries, 
viz., telegraph wire connections and instruments, and wireless telegraph (radio) 
equipment for the direct reciprocal transmission of telegraphic messages. 


Article 2. China and Korea may aiso transmit over their facilities tele- 
grams dispatched from or destined for Places outside their ow countries upon 
which they have mutually agreed. 


Article 3. China and Korea shall provide service for the transmission of 
nine kinds of messages, as follows: 


1. Official telegrams (S) [code designations given in Roman letters 
a in original/ 
: Urgent ucws telegrams (Urgent Press) 
Ordinary news telegrams (Press) 
Urgent private telegrams (D) 
Ordinary private telegrams (P) 
Urgent public business telegrams (AD) 
Ordinary public business telegrams (A) 
Paid public telegrams (ST) 
Paid reply public telegrams (RST) 


_,. SOMFSSEr 


FS CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL 


ea i ea 


O ON OW Sw nr 


'. 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600300263-6 


es * page 
od ¥ 4 a F 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600300263-6 


= CONFIDENTIAL 50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 
In the beginning, repeat messages (TC) for special service telegrams Ee eu, 
relating to telegraph operations will be handled; later on after mutual agree- : 
ment, cy iepest messages for/ special service telegrams relating to other kinds a ‘4 
of operations may be handled. i ee) 
Article 4. Languages to be used in telegrams are limited to Chinese, Kore- hh ao { 
an, and such Latin-letter 1: es as have been mutually agreed upon. A list ne yl 
of the places [telegraph offices/ in each of the two countries where any of the 4 7 
above-mentioned languages are handled shall be Prepared at once and sent to the , \ 
other party. i 
: a 


Article 5. Secret codes (SCDE) may be used in official telegrams and such i 
messages shall not be subject +o investigation. Representative agencies, groups, 7 
or delegates, appointed by either the Chinese or Korean governments, provided 
they have been formally registered in the country other than their own, shall 
be entitled to use secret codes and their messages shall not be subject to in- 
vestigation. Other private telegrams may employ codes in common international 
use provided the codes have been approved by both parties to this convention. 


Article 6. The assigned priority of telegrams sent between China and Korea 
is as follows: 


1. Official telegrams 
2. Urgent public-business telegrams, paid public telegrams, and paid- 
reply public telegrems. 
3. Urgent news telegrams 
Urgent private telegrams 
5. Ordinary public telegrams 
6. Ordinary news telegrams 
7. Ordinary private telegrams 


Article 7. The agreed upon routes and mode of transmission for direct tele- 
graphic communication between China and Korea are as follows: 


Pei-p' ing {PK -- P'yongyang (PH) by radio 
Shen-yang (SY) -- P'yongyang (PH) by telegraph wires 
An-tung (AT) -- Sinuiju (SH) by telegraph wires 
Yen-chi (YK) -- Ch'ongjin (CH) by telegraph wires 


Fwy, 


Article 8. Mutual operational connection is permitted between all telegraph 
offices within the territories of China and Korea. Both parties shall supply each 
other with the names of all the telegraph offices in their respective countries. 


Article 9. With reference to the direct exchange of telegraph service be- 
tween China and Korea, the basic rates, method of apportioning the fees, account- 
. ing methods of both parties, exchange of bills of account, and method of clear- 
ing accounts, shall be mutually decided in accordance with established interna- 
tional telegraph practices. 


Article 10. The responsibility for determining the charges for telegrams be- 
tween Korea and other countries, relayed vie China, rests with China. The responsi- 
bility for determining the charges for telegrams between, China and other coun- 
tries relayed via Korea, rests with Korea, 


Article 11. The rate oi charges for official telegrams (S) shall be one 
half the rate for ordinary private telegrams (P), but this applies only to of- 
ficial telegrams sent by the governments of China and Korea or their official 
representatives. Official telegrams sent by the government representatives of 
other countries, between China and Korea, shall be charged the full rates. The 


CONFIDERT: A. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


~ Bw 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600300263-6 


t 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : ( CIA-RDP80-00809A000600300263-6 


r 


“See 


. 


N i raat r 5 
: ee, ee . : : fea 


CORFISERTIAT 


CONFIDENTIAL 


rate of charges for ordinary news telegrams (Press) shall be one sixth the rate 
for ordinary private telegrams. The rate for urgent news telegrams (Urgent Fress) 
shall be the same as that for ordinary private telegrams. The rate for urgent 
private telegrams (D) shall be double that for ordinary private telegrams (P). 


Article 12. No charge shall be made by either country for the exchange of 
service messages required in the course of telegraph operations. If, due to the 
interruption of service between the two countries, telegrams have to be relayed 
via the telegraphic system of some other country, responsibility for the charges 
involved shall be borne by the sending party. 


Article 13. Both pérties are expected to maintain ample technical facili- 
ties for expeditiously meéting the traffic needs of the two countries. If, in 
order to avoid undue delay on account of crowded traffic in telegrams for ex- 
change between the two countries, some telegrams are routed via a third country, 
the cost of such relaying service, in excess of the maximum amount predetermined 
by mutual agreement, shall be borne equally by beth parties. Should the volume 
of such relayed telegrams appear excessive, either party may present objections 
with a view to restraining the practice. 


Article lk. Should either country be obliged for any reason to suspend the 
transmission of telegrams resulting in injury to the other country, the party sus- 
pending service shall not be held responsible for indemnifying the other Bay, 
for any injury the latter may have suffered thereby. 


Article 15. Continuous service 2h hours a day shall be maintained on the 
wire telegraph lines between China and Korea. 


Article 16. In the case of radio communications between China and Korea, 
the two Telegraph Administrations shall, from time to time, jointly arrange 
their call signals, wave patterns, frequencies, and daily times of operation. 


Article 17. If a telegraph office of either country, due to domestic 
trouble in connection with its telegraphs or to any other peculiar conditions, 
finds it impossible to deliver to the addressee within 5 hours of the time 
of receipt any telegram dispatched by an office in the other country, it shall 
immediately notify the sending office by a service telegram to that effect. 


Article 18. The centers of the iron bridges across the Yalu River and 
the T'u-men Chiang shall be the places for joining the wires or cables em- 
ployed for direct wire telegraph communication between China and Korea. Both 
countries shall be responsible for erecting and maintaining their respective 
wires up to those points. Technical matters pertaining to the connection of 
the wires shall be arranged by mutuel consultation. 


Article 19. In the management and operation of telegraphic service be- 
tween China and Korea, both countries, besides complying with the provisions 
of this convention, shall observe the applicable portions of such interna- 
tional telegraphic agreements as the International Telegraph Regulations, the 
International Radio Regulations. and the International Radio Supplementar, 
Regulations, providing that they are not in conflict with this convention. 


Article 20. Written communications between the two countries relative to 
operational matters should, as far as possible, consist of both a Chinese ver- 
sion and & Korean version of equivalent meaning. Such communications as per- 
tain to this coavention should be kept on file for 2 years. 


Article 21. Should the provisions of this convention prove to be lack- 
ing or unsuitable in any respect, the convention may be amended by mutual 


CONFIDE» 
me . 


CONFIDENTIAL 


50X1-HUM 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600300263-6 


« ant 


P80-00809A000600300263-6 


et av ad i i Se x . te 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RD 


r 


CONFIDENTIAL So a 50X1-HUM 


Article 22. This convention, after approval by the governments of both 
countries and reciprocal notification of such approval, shall go into effect 
on 1 Febrvary 1950, and remain in effect for 3 years from that date. At any 
time up to 6 months before the expiration of the term of this convention, ei- 
ther party may notify the other party of its intention to terminate the con- 
vention; and in that event, the convention shall be terminated on the date of 
expiration. If, at that time, neither party has signified its intention to 
terminate the convention, it shall continue in force beyond the date of ex- 
Piration. Thereafter, either party may at any time give the other ‘party writ- 
ten notification of its intention to terminate the convention, whereupon it 
shall be terminated 6 months from the date of the notification. 


This convention shall be prepared in duplicate in the Chinese and 
Korean languages, and China and Korea shall each retain one copy. The Chinese 
version and the Korean version shall be of equal effect. Should there be any 
difference of opinion as to the meaning of any part of the convention, the mat- 
ter shall be settled by mutual consultation. 


At the same time that this convention shall go into effect, the North- 
east Liberated Area of the Republic of China-North Korea Provisional Postal 
and Telegraph Convention, and the detailed regulations for its impleme ntation, 
which were signed 18 December 1947 between the Bureau of Communications of the 
North Korea People's Committee and the Postal and Telegraph Administration of 
the Northeast Executive Committee of the Republic of Chima shall become null 
and void. 


This convention was executed 25 December 1949, at Pei-p'ing, the capital 
of the People's Republic of China, in witness whereof the signatures of the 
representatives of both parties are hereunto. subscribed: 


Signed: Wang Tzu-kang (Ueda: 7262, 2262, 8884) 
Huang Ju-tsu (14693, 2031, 8117) 
Sun Ch'uan-hsien (2282, 468, 11397) 
Representing the Ministry of Posts and Telegraph of 
the People's Republic of Chins. 


Ch'e Ping-t'ing (11740, 8185, 160) 
Sung Li-hsien (2312, 8165, 11397) 
Representing the Ministry of Communications 
of the Democratic izople's Republic of Korea 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600300263-6 


