COPY NO. 166 


E@RET FOR THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
FOR REPORTS AND ESTIMATES 


yas 


CURRENT CAPABILITIES OF THE 
NORTHERN KOREAN REGIME 


CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM ° 
RELEASE IN FULL 


: 
—— 


sufltsx 


DISSEMINATION NOTICE 


1. This copy of this publication is for the information and use of the recipient 
designated on the front cover and of individuals under the jurisdiction of the recipient's 
office who require the information for the performance of their official duties. Further 
dissemination elsewhere in the department to other offices which require the informa- 
tion for the performance of official duties may be authorized by the following: 


a. Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Research and Intelligence, for 
the Department of State 


. Director of Intelligence, GS, USA, for the Department of the Army 

. Chief, Naval Intelligence, for the Department of the Navy 

. Director of Intelligence, USAF, for the Department of the Air Force 

. Director of Security and Intelligence, AEC, for the Atomic Energy Com- 
mission 

. Deputy Director for Intelligence, Joint Staff, for the Joint Staff 


g. Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA, for any other 
Department or Agency 


a QA a oe 


— 


2. This copy may be either retained or destroyed by burning in accordance with 
applicable security regulations, or returned to the Central Intelligence Agency by 
arrangement with the Office of Collection and Dissemination, CIA. 


DISTRIBUTION: 

Office of the President 

National Security Council 
National Security Resources Board 
Department of State 

Office of Secretary of Defense 
Department of the Army 
Department of the Navy 
Department of the Air Force 
Joint Chiefs of Staff 

Atomic Energy Commission 
Research and Development Board 


suger 


snap 


CURRENT CAPABILITIES OF THE NORTHERN KOREAN REGIME 
ESTIMATE OF CURRENT CAPABILITIES 


The “Democratic People’s Republic” of 
northern Korea is a firmly controlled Soviet 
Satellite that exercises no independent initia- 
tive and depends entirely on the support of 
the USSR for existence. At the present time 
there is no serious internal threat to the 
regime’s stability, and, barring an outbreak 
of general hostilities, the Communists will con- 
tinue to make progress toward their ultimate 
domestic goals. The Communist regime in 
northern Korea suffers from a shortage of 
skilled administrative personnel and from 
weaknesses in its economy and its official 
Party organizations. There is widespread, al- 
though passive, popular discontent with the 
Communist government. Despite these weak- 
nesses, however, the regime has, with Soviet 
assistance, clearly demonstrated an ability to 
continue its control and development of north- 
ern Korea along predetermined political, eco- 
nomic, and social lines. 


The northern Korean regime is also capable, 
in pursuit of its major external aim of extend- 
ing control over southern Korea, of continu- 
ing and increasing its support of the present 
program of propaganda, infiltration, sabotage, 
subversion, and guerrilla operations against 
southern Korea. This program will not be 
sufficient in itself, however, to cause a collapse 
of the southern Korean regime and the exten- 
sion of Communist control over the south so 
long as US economic and military aid to south- 
ern Korea is not substantially reduced or 
seriously dissipated. 

At the same time the capability of the north- 
ern Korean armed forces for both short- and 
long-term overt military operations is being 
further developed. Although the northern 
and southern forces are nearly equal in terms 
of combat effectives, training, and leadership, 


the northern Koreans possess a superiority in 
armor, heavy artillery, and aircraft. Thus, 
northern Korea’s armed forces, even as pres- 
ently constituted and supported, have a capa- 
bility for attaining limited objectives in short- 
term military operations against southern 
Korea, including the capture of Seoul. 

Northern Korea's capability for long-term 
military operations is dependent upon in- 
creased logistical support from the USSR. If: 
the foreign supporters of each faction were 
called upon for increased assistance, there is 
no reason to believe that Soviet support would 
be withheld and considerations of proximity 
and availability of such assistance would 
greatly favor the northern Korean regime. 
Soviet assistance to northern Korea, however, 
probably would not be in the form of direct 
participation of regular Soviet or Chinese 
Communist military units except as a last 
resort. The USSR would be restrained from 
using its troops by the fear.of general war; and 
its suspected desire to restrict and control 
Chinese influence in northern Korea would 
militate against sanctioning the use of regular 
Chinese Communist units in Korea. 

Despite the apparent military superiority 
of northern over southern Korea, it is not 
certain that the northern regime, lacking the 
active participation of Soviet and Chinese 
Communist military units, would be able to 
gain effective control over all of southern 
Korea. The key factors which would hinder 
Communist attempts to extend effective con- 
trol under these circumstances are: (1) the 
anti-Communist attitude of the southern Ko- 
reans; (2) & continuing will to resist on the 
part of southern troops; (3) the Communist 
regime’s lack of popular support; and (4) the 
regime’s lack of trained administrators and 
technicians. 


Note: The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, Army, Navy, and the 


Air Force have concurred in this report. 


of 15 May 1950. 


It contains information available to CIA as 


sights 1 


suger 


ANNEX A 
SOVIET POSITION IN NORTHERN KOREA 


The USSR’s fundamental strategic concern 
’ with Korea is positional. Northern Korea has 
a short common border with Soviet territory, 
fianks sea and land communication lines be- 
tween Vladivostok and Port Arthur, and 
shares a long, common frontier with Man- 
churia. Control of northern Korea provides 
the USSR with an advance fringe of second- 
ary air and naval bases beyond the boundaries 
of the Soviet Far East. In addition, northern 
Korea provides a base for eventual extension 
of Soviet control over southern Korea, which, 
if accomplished, would give the Soviet Union 
a further strategic advantage in its positional 
relationship with Japan and consequently en- 
hance the position of the USSR vis-a-vis the 
US in the Far East. Of increasing importance 
at the present time is the area’s economic po- 
tential, which, although limited, can make 
valuable contributions to the economy of the 
Soviet Far East. 

To assure continued control and to protect 
and advance strategic and economic interests 
in northern Korea, the Soviet Union since 1945 
has concentrated on the following objectives: 


Lor blank} 


suglen 


(1) the establishment of a strong, effective, 
and obedient Communist government and so- 
ciety; (2) the exploitation of economic and 
human resources, with simultaneous develop- 
ment of a self-supporting, expanding economy 
within northern Korea; and (3) the exploi- 
tation of northern Korea as a base for the 
penetration and subversion of southern Korea. 


Since the establishment of the “Democratic 
People’s Republic” (September 1948) and the 
withdrawal of Soviet troops (December 1948), 
the Soviet Union has maintained the fiction 
of northern Korean independence and has ex- 
ercised its control through the medium of the 
Communist-jominated Korean Government 
and associated political organizations. The 
Soviet Embassy at the “capital city” of Pyong- 
yang is headquarters for the four- to five- 
thousand-man Soviet mission in northern 
Korea. The Soviet mission, infiltrated as ad- 
visers throughout the government, economy, 
and political organizations, serves as a guar- 
antee of northern Korean subservience and a 
source of technica] assistance. 


safer 


| “ANNEX B 
CURRENT POLITICAL SITUATION 


I. Indigenous Leadership. 


The “Democratic People's Republic” is 
under the immediate control of a small group 
of Korean Communist leaders-whose primary 
qualification for high office ‘is loyalty to the 
USSR and willingness to accept a subordinate 
role within the pattern of ‘Soviet control. 
Thus, Koreans with a Soviet background ap- 
pear to have been given positions superior to 
those held by either native-trained Commu- 
nists or Koreans who received Communist in- 
doctrination in Yenan and Manchuria, and 
this Soviet-trained leadership appears to be 
well knit. The intensity of Soviet control, the 
leaders’ lack of strong personal followings 
among the Korean people, and the composition 
of the’present southern Korean Government 
which makes it unpalatable to possible north- 
ern “nationalist deviationists” as an alterna- 
tive prevents either significant deviations or 
disruptive factionalism. | 


Except for their loyalty and subservience to 
the USSR, northern Korea's leaders possess 
few qualifications for the responsibility of high 
government and party office. They have 
gained no popular support. and. despite four 
years in office they still lack requisite adminis- 
trative and technical skills. Although these 
weaknesses lower the regime’s efficiency and 
decrease its popular appeal, they do not ma- 
terially affect the stability of the “People’s 
Republic,” since experienced’ Soviet advisers 
adequately maintain government efficiency at 
the top level and the police effectively control 
the populace. 


2. Government Organization. 


The Government of northern Korea closely 
resembles that of all other “people’s democ- 
racies” and a..democratic facade obscures its 
basic totalitarian’ pattern. Constitutional 
provisions for a popularly elected representa- 


SE: 


C7 + blank 3 


tive assembly, a responsible cabinet—actually 
the key organ in the government—civil liber- 
ties and other rights and institutions normally 
associated with democratic government, are 
intended to develop popular support for the 
“People’s Republic” not only in northern 
Korea but in southern Korea as well. Changes 
gradually being made in the institutions es- 
tablished by the Constitution, however, point 
to the transformation of the “People’s Democ- 
racy” into an “orthodox” socialist state of the 


Soviet type. . 


3. Party. Organization. 

~ The organization of the Communist Party 
(officially. known as the ‘North Koréa Labor 
Party) - (NKLP);° which parallels the’. hier- 
archical government structure, is similar:.to 
the Party in the USSR. Top government po- 
sitions are all“held by NKLP members, and 
the Party’s Politbureau is the regime's major 
policy-making body. Most of the govern: 
ment’s bureaucrats are drawn from the Party 
ranks. The Party is intended to be the ac- 
tivist element among the politically passive 
northern Koreans, is responsible for political 
activities—including elections, demonstra- 
tions, and the dissemination of propaganda— 
and is the nucleus for what will eventually be 
a one-party system. In the interim, however, 
the fiction of a multi-party system is main: 
tained. The Front and its organizations, 
manipulated and controlled by the NKLP 
leadership, and designed to include every seg- 
ment of society, support and assist internal 
indoctrination and control programs and play 
an-even more: important role in ‘operations 
against southern Korea. 

Membership in the NKLP is estimated at 
between: five and six hundred thousand, .an 
unusually high percentage of the total popu- 
lation. “The. Party is controlled by a group 
of about ‘a hundred, who provide the indige- 


ET . 5 


6 suger 


nous leadership in the state apparatus and 
who subject the several thousand petty offi- 
cials, intellectuals, and professional men in 
the middle bracket of the Party (generally 
less thoroughly indoctrinated Marxists) to the 
most stringent Party discipline. 

The remainder of the Party’s membership 
is four-fifths peasant and one-fifth urban and 
industrial workers. The support of this vast 
majority of the Party’s members is maintained 
through preferential treatment and strict dis- 
cipline. Devotion and loyalty to the Party’s 
leadership, rather than intellectual adherence 
to Marxism, is required from this Party ma- 
jority that serves fundamentally as a large 
base with a vested interest in perpetuation of 
the regime, rather than as a mature activist 
element. 


4. Methods of Control. 


Both the state organization and the regi- 
mentation of Korean society depend on firm 
control of the people and the maintenance of 
internal security. The police force is the in- 
strument of primary control. Exclusive of 
the para-military border constabulary which 
is still under the Minister of Interior, there are 
some thirty to forty thousand police agents 
and uniformed police. The former maintain 
a constant check on public attitudes and seek 
out dissident elements. Groups such as 
former landlords, businessmen, property 
owners, intellectuals and Christians in the 
north Korean population are singled out by 
the police (as dissident or potentially dissident 
elements) and are subject to particularly 
rigid police controls. 

As a long-range source of stability, Korea’s 
Communist regime has sought popular sup- 
port through the use of persuasive techniques, 
principally propaganda and the conferring of 
material benefits. Propaganda, disseminated 
through a wide variety of media, reaches every 
element of the Korean population. Its main 
effort is directed at concealing the dictatorial 
nature of the government, the extent of Soviet 
domination and similar aspects of Commu- 
nism in Korea, while creating, on the other 
hand, the illusion of national independence, 
representative government, equality with the 
Soviet Union, and other favorable stereotypes. 
Material benefits designed to recruit mass sup- 


port include: reforms purported to correct 
deep-seated inequities in the Korean social and 
economic system; the provision of: social and 
public services on much larger scale than 
under the Japanese; and specific state’ ac- 
tions—such as the release of extra consumer 
goods—timed to counteract public discontent 
over new economic regulations. 


5. Effectiveness of the Political System. 

The “Democratic People’s Republic” has es- 
tablished firm control over the northern Ko- 
rean people. Despite weaknesses, the Com- 
munist regime is progressing toward its ulti- 
mate domestic objectives of establishing a 
stable, fully socialized state. Its strength and 
stability are mainly attributable to: (1) rigid 
direction exercised through Soviet advisers 
and loyal Korean Communists; (2) Soviet ma- 
terial aid and technical advice in all fields; 
(3) comprehensive and highly organized state 
regulation of political, economic, and social 
activity, maintained both through govern- 
ment controls and through the actions of Com- 
munist-controlled mass organizations; (4) ef- 
fective police control, supplemented by tech- 
niques of persuasion and psychologically bol- 
stered by the proximity of Soviet forces; (5) 
cohesiveness and loyalty to both the govern- 
ment and the Soviet Union on the part of 
northern Korea’s indigenous leaders, the 
bureaucracy, the police, the North Korea 
Labor Party and the more skilled technicians 
and workers; and (6) the achievement, since 
1946, of substantial increases in production, 
which have raised living standards in north- 
ern Korea to a minimum subsistence level. 

Despite the strength and. stability of the 
“People’s Republic” the regime has a number 
of important weaknesses to overcome, major 
among them being: (1) a lack of experienced 
and competent leaders, administrators, tech- 
nicians, and dynamic activist strength in the 
NKLP; (2) the regime’s narrow base of popu- 
lar support, which results from the relatively 
widespread popular discontent; (3) Soviet in- 
terference and exploitation, which offends Ko- 
rean desires for complete independence and 
contributes to the low standard of living, 
which is a basic cause for popular discontent 
and a factor contributing to low labor pro- 
ductivity. 


sugher 


suger 7 


The Communist system, itself inherently 
incompatible with traditional social, eco- 
nomic, and political forms in Korea,-assures 
the existence of discontented groups under 
the northern regime. In the brief period of 
Communist control, nearly two million north- 
ern Korean refugees have moved to the south; 
the great mass of the northerners have not 
yet appeared receptive to a Communist, Soviet- 
oriented state, and indoctrination in Marxian 
ideology remains extremely limited. ‘There is 
believed to be widespread discontent and dis- 
satisfaction among farmers, for example, par- 
ticularly among those who formerly owned 
large or medium-sized farms. The forced labor 
required on community projects, as well as the 
government's collection of large special crop 
taxes, moreover, has incurred the resentment 
. of former landless tenant farmers, whose sup-. 
port was actively solicited by means of the 
1946 “land reform.” The 100,000 or more 
Christians are strongly anti-Communist, and 
considerable discontent also exists among the 
pre-liberation middle classes. This popular 
discontent appears to be largely passive, how- 
ever, and in the few known attempts to organ- 


ize the opposition for action, the groups were 


quickly broken up by the police. 

The low standard of living, although pri- 
marily an economic problem, has its political 
ramifications. The problem is a difficult one 


because the low standard arises directly and 
indirectly from other weaknesses in the sys- 
tem and cannot be resolved completely so long 
as the Soviet Union continues the economic 
exploitation of northern Korea.. 


None of these problems, however, is sufii- 
ciently critical at present either to threaten 
the USSR’s control over northern Korea or to 
challenge the northern Korean regime's ability 
to maintain itself. Northern Korean internal 
security forces are fully capable of maintain- 
ing the regime in power during the period re- 
quired for the reduction of current weaknesses 
in administration, leadership and production, 
and the progressive development of more ad- 
vanced Communist political forms. Barring 
a period of internal disorganization, or crises 
arising from external military pressures, the 
Communist regime’s present lack of popular 
support does not represent a serious problem. 
In the long run, living standards probably will 
be somewhat improved, and the regime's per- 
suasive tactics are likely to gain additional re- 
cruits among the younger generation. On the 
other hand, while these weaknesses do not 
seriously impair the Communists’ ability to 
control and develop northern Korea, they do 
materially reduce that regime’s current ability 
to extend and maintain control over southern 
Korea. 


ee 


suger 


sagt 


ANNEX C 
CURRENT ECONOMIC SITUATION 


1. Organization of the Economy. 


. Koreans were almost completely excluded 
from ownership and management when Ko- 
rea’s economic system was under Japanese 
Tule. As a consequence, the USSR’s intro- 
duction of a socialized economy in northern 
Korea after 1945 proceeded with little internal 
opposition. The principal Soviet economic 
objective in northern Korea has been the gear- 
ing of the economy to the requirements of the 
Soviet Far East while. developing northern 
Korean resources to provide the maximum of 
self-support. The USSR has fostered the de- 
velopment of those industries producing. ex- 
ports required by its economy and has also 
sought to overcome the existing shortages in 
consumer goods production and other items 
presently obtained from external sources. 


' These plans, if successful, would ensure a vi- 


able, although low level, economy in northern 
Korea and would also insure increasing re- 
turns to the USSR in their exploitation of the 
northern Korean economy. 


Effective Soviet direction of the northern 
Korean economy is insured through: (1) the 
Placement of Soviet advisers and Koreans 
loyal to the USSR in all key positions control- 
ling the economy; (2) the use of Soviet ad- 
visers and engineers in all key Korean instal- 
lations; and (3) the existence of “joint” Soviet- 
Korean control over northern Korea’s foreign 
trade. 


All major economic undertakings in north- 
ern Korea are planned, financed, and directed 
by the responsible government ministries, 
which are under intensive Soviet supervision. 
Private ownership is confined to small com- 


. mercial establishments and trading compa- 


nies, some mining activities, and agriculture. 
Even in agriculture, legal title to the land dis- 
tributed by the Communist regime in the Land 
Reform Program of 1946 still rests with the 


State, and there is a considerable degree of 
state control over agricultural production. — 


2. Production and Trade. 


By the end of 1946, a combination of J apan’s 
wartime abuses of Korea's arable land and 
industrial plant, and subsequent Soviet loot- 
ing and Korean neglect, had reduced north- 
ern Korea's economy to a state of near chaos. 
Recovery has been slow, but by 1949 the in- 
dustrial plant had achieved a Significant level 
of activity. Today, to judge by the northern 
Korean regimie’s published two-year produc- 
tion plan (1949-1950) and by scattered in- 
telligence reports, heavy industrial plant 
production, while it has increased significantly 
over 1946, it is still 15-30 percent below the 
peak 1944 level. 

Postwar production plans have reflected a 
reduction in the production of some finished 
heavy industrial items, such as pig iron and 
aluminum, which formerly was geared to 
Japanese rather than to domestic absorption 
capacity. Emphasis has been shifted, in- 
stead, to the construction and expansion of 
plants producing basic and end-use equipment 
and consumer goods. 

The current production of iron and steel, 
non-ferrous metals, fertilizers, industria] 
chemicals, and cement is still in excess of the 
Korean economy’s capacity to process and 
absorb. The resultant Surplus is exported 
both to meet Soviet demands and to obtain 
needed imports of basic equipment and con- 
sumer goods. Although only spotty informa- 
tion is available concerning the degree of re- 
covery in the fields of agriculture, forestry, 
and fisheries, these too have apparently re- 
vived to such an extent that selected exports 
are practicable. As a result of the possession 
of some industrial and agricultural surplus, 
and the need for basic and end-use equipment, 
a relatively large volume ,of foreign trade is 


sufher 9 


C9 8. blanks 


10 se ig 


both possible and necessary for the mainte- 

nance of the northern Korean economy. Ad- 

ditionally, the area’s lack of petroleum and 

bituminous coal forces the importation of 
both. 


It is believed that northern Korea’s balance 
of payments is unfavorable. This unfavor- 
able balance probably arises largely from 
Soviet pricing policies which underprice Ko- 
rean exports and overprice Soviet exports. 
Exports to the USSR, northern Korea's prin- 


cipal postwar trading partner, are, for the: 


most part, iron and steel, non-ferrous metals 
and ores, chemicals, lumber, marine products, 
and grain. Imports are machinery, arma- 
ments, coal, and petroleum. 


Hong Kong is northern Korea’s principal 
non-Communist trading partner, and a wide 
variety of imports are sought on that market. 
Chief among these are textiles, basic ma- 
chinery, pharmaceuticals, and selected indus- 
trial chemicals.. Korean exports to Hong 
Kong consist of cattle fodder, marine products, 
grains, fats and oils, and chemicals. Less im- 
portant trade relations are conducted directly 
with Manchuria, North China, Southeast 
Asia, and—clandestinely—with Japan and 
southern Korea. 


3. Standards of Living. 


The living standard of the great majority 
of northern Koreans has shown a significant 
increase from the below-subsistence level 
which immediately followed World War I. 
Rationing of all foods and basic necessities, 
which has ensured the meeting of the popula- 
tion’s minimum requirements, has been a fac- 


tor in preventing development of the wide- 
spread discontent into active resistance. 

The shortage of housing in urban areas, 
harsh working conditions, low wages, the high 
cost of consumer goods, and the high taxes on 
agricultural production are all major prob- 
lems which remain to be overcome before the 
present subsistence level of living can be 
raised. Attempts to this end are evident in 
the Communist regime’s current plans for ex- 
pansion of consumer goods industries, as well 
as in the volume of consumer goods imported 
from Hong Kong in 1949. While Soviet ex- 
ploitation of the northern Korean economy 
continues, however, any substantial improve- 
ment in living standards will be inhibited. 


4. Limitations on the Economy. 


Several problems will continue to hamper 
the Communist regime’s progress toward self- 
support. The most important among these 
arises from the fact that the USSR will con- 
tinue to support and assist the development 
of the northern Korean economy only to the 
ultimate benefit of the Soviet economy. So 
long as the importation of bituminous coal 
and petroleum and the operation of the north- 
erm Korean merchant marine is under Soviet 
control, the operation of Korea’s economy 
will remain almost completely dependent on 
the USSR. A further major problem faced 
by the northern Korean regime is the internal 
one of the Korean people’s low level of produc- 
tivity. Since there is a shortage of both 
skilled and unskilled manpower in the north, 
low productivity can be expected to continue 
despite the Communist regime's efforts to im- 
prove the situation. 


sug 


ANNEX D 


CURRENT MILITARY SITUATION 


Northern Korea’s military forces are still 
being expanded. So far as the ground forces 
are concerned, this process involves the in- 
tegration into the “People’s Army” of local 
recruits and of Korean troops that have seen 
service under the Chinese Communists in 
Manchuria, as well as the equipping of this 
force with small arms, artillery, vehicles, air- 
craft, and armor from the USSR. 

Trained and equipped units of the Com- 
munist “People’s Army” are being deployed 
southward in the area of the 38th Parallel. 
“People’s Army” and Border Constabulary 
units there equal or surpass the strength of 
southern Korean army units similarly de- 
ployed. Tanks and heavy artillery have also 
been moved close to the Parallel in recent 
months. 


1. Army. 

Current estimates place the strength of the 
“People’s Army” (PA) at 66,000 men (includ- 
ing 16,000 ex-Manchurian troops) organized 
into at least three infantry divisions and an 
independent brigade. The PA’s critical arms 
include: (1) an armored unit, estimated to 
possess 65 Soviet T-34 tanks; (2) divisional 
artillery units equipped with 76 mm guns and 
122 mm howitzers; and (3) anti-aircraft units 
in the border regions. The 20,500-man Border 
Constabulary (BC), which is also being ex- 
panded with ex-Manchurian levies, is nomi- 
nally a paramilitary police force and was 
previqusly armed with Japanese weapons. 
The BC has been trained to infantry stand- 
ards, however, and has now been re-equipped 
with Soviet weapons. 


2. Atr Force. 


According to current accepted estimates, the 
“People’s Army Air Force” (PAAF) consists of 
an air regiment of 1,500 men, including 150 
pilots, equipped with 35 YAK-9 and/or IL-10 
fighters, 3 twin-engine bombers, 2 twin-engine 


transports, and 35 Japanese or Soviet train- 
ing planes. This estimate may be subject to 
an upward revision in the near future. 


3. Navy. 

The northern Korean navy performs mainly 
asa coast guard force. Present navy strength 
is estimated at 5,100 men. A marine unit, 
whose exact functions are as yet undeter- 
mined, numbers approximately 5,400 men. 
Northern Korean navy shore installations and 
ships are of little consequence. 


4. Logistics and Manpower. 


The northern Korean armed forces depend 
almost wholly on the USSR for logistic sup- 
port. Recent reports have indicated, how- 
ever, that limited quantities of Soviet-type 
small arms, munitions, and uniforms are being 
locally manufactured. 

A large segment of the domestic economy is 
as yet uncommitted to the logistic support of 
the armed forces and could provide further 
manpower for expansion of the military ma- 
chine. However, the Communist regime’s 
military machine already constitutes a drain 
on the undermanned northern Korean econ- 
omy. An additional sixty to seventy thou- 
sand Koreans who have seen service with the 
Chinese Communists, furthermore, are be- 
lieved to be available in Manchuria if needed 
for integration in or loan to the “People's 
Army.” 


5. Training. 


The northern Korean military forces are 
entirely the product of Soviet planning, and 
depend heavily on the large Soviet military 
mission for training at higher command levels 
and for tactical advice down to the battalion 
level. The PA’s state of training is compa- 
rable to that of the southern Korean Army. 
Air training is probably still in a basic stage, 
however, and there is no indication that the 


sughsr 1 


12 


Air Regiment has attained operational status. 
The navy has received less Soviet attention. 

There is evidence of a continuing program 
of sending small numbers of ground and air 
officers to the USSR for advanced training. 
Soviet advisers to the PA are believed to num- 
ber at least 2,000; to the PAAF,.70; and to 
the Navy, 33. An additional 2,000 Soviet 
naval personnel are reported to be stationed 
in major northern Korean ports, to service 
Soviet naval units and to control port facili- 
ties, 


6. Morale. 

‘The morale of the northern Korean mili- 
tary forces generally appears to be good, and, 
although factions exist, factionalism is not 
a significant problem. ‘Troops are subject to 


sugtar 


continuous indoctrination and surveillance, 
and their loyalty is further induced by above- 
average food rations, good wages, and special 
privileges. At the present time, the northern 
Korean armed forces are probably psycho- 
logically prepared to fight wholeheartedly 

- against southern Korean troops. Their 
loyalty to the Communist regime and their 
fighting spirit, however, would vary inversely 
with the strength of the opposition and the 
duration of the struggle. In contrast, the ex- 
Manchurian Koreans, whose loyalty was in- 
dicated by the fact of their transfer to the PA, 
now form a significant percentage of that 
force. These troops possibly have less feeling 

of kinship for southern Koreans and therefore 

‘ may provide a firm backbone for the PA in 
the event of military operations. 


sayeth 


ANNEX E 
CURRENT OPERATIONS AGAINST SOUTHERN KOREA 


The ultimate local objective of the Soviet 
Union and of the northern Korean regime is 
the elimination of the southern Republic of 
Korea and the unification of the Korean pen- 
insula under Communist domination. To this 
end, an open invasion of the Republic by 
northern Korean military forces has thus far 
been delayed in favor of a coordinated 
campaign involving political pressure within 
southern Korea, subversion, propaganda, in- 
timidation, economic pressure, and military 
actions by infiltration of guerrilla forces. 

To date, this campaign has succeeded in 
damaging south Korea’s economy to a serious 
extent. The withholding of northern Korean 
power, fertilizer, coal, iron, and steel from the 
southern Republic has been offset only in part 
by large-scale US economic aid. In turn, the 
Communist-trained guerrillas operating in 
' south Korea, while they have not been success- 
ful in developing large concentrations or seri- 
ously threatening the Republic’s internal sta- 
bility, have forced the Republic to expend 
large sums of money in “suppression cam- 
paigns,” and thus have contributed materially 


to the ‘dangerous inflationary situation in 
south Korea. Anti-guerrilla activity, more- 
over, has prevented the deployment of some 
Republican Army units along the strategic 
corridors adjacent.to the 38th Parallel. 

Communist propaganda, especially that 
which reiterates the theme of unification, 
probably has little present appeal to the south- 
ern Korean people, since they are basically 
anti-Communist. The Republic’s anti-Com- 
munist program has also materially reduced 
the Communists’ ability to infiltrate southern 
Korean governmental and political organi- 
zations. 

Although Communist operations against 
the southern Republic of Korea have not thus 
far produced decisive results, the Republic has 
been forced to make serious political and eco- 
nomic sacrifices in order to counter the ever- 
present Communist threat. At the same time, 
the cost to the Communists has been rela- 
tively slight, and their ability to continue the 
campaign far exceeds the Republic’s capa- 
bility to continue effective resistance without 
US aid. 


SEGA 13 


GPO-State Serv.-50—-5241 


