age 
Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600310656-9 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL CONEIDEN THN 50X1-HUM 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ; REPORT 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS § CD KO. 


COUNTRY North Korea DATE OF 
INFORMATION 1950 

SUBJECT Political 
HOW DATE DIST. ,2 Jun 1950 
PUBLISHED Daily newspapers 
WHERE 
PUBLISHED P' yongyang NO. OF PAGES 3 
DATE ‘ 
PUBLISHED 2 Feb 1950 

a SUPPLEMENT TO 
LANGUAGE Korean REPORT NO. 


THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL ORFENSE 
OF THR UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT 30 
VU. B.C. STAND 82, AG AMENDED. ITS TRANSMISSION on LATION 
OF ITS CONTERTS IN ANY MANNER TO AM UNAUTHORIZED 

WIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM IS PROHIBITED. 


THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


SOURCE Newspapers as indicated. 


NORTH KOREA TIGHTENS LABOR DISCIPLINE 


ENFORCES NEW LABOR DISCIPLINE RULES -- Kaepyok Sinpo, 2 Feb 50 


In a public statement dated 31 January 1950, Premier Kim Il~song and Min- 
_ deter of Labor Ho Song-t'aek of the People's Republic announced the approval, 
under Cabinet Decision No 27, of the Standard Labor Discipline Rules applicable 
to all manual and clerical workers of North Korea. The proclamation reads in 
part, "The cabinet of the People's Republic has adopted the present rules with 
the purpose of establishing a higher standard of labor discipline in the Peo- 
ple's Republic so as to insure a satisfactory accomplishment of the People's 
Economic Program and all other state projects." . 


The proclamation provides that_the superintendent in each office and’ fac- 
tory operated by all state groups [including government agencies and political 
groups/, social organizations, cooperatives, and enterprises in general, here- 
jnafter referred to as workshops, may consult with the respective labor union 
with which his workshop is affiliated, and formulate by-laws of labor disci- 
pline that are most practical to his workshop, in conformity with the Standard 
Labor Discipline Rules. Such by-laws may become effective upon approval by the 
local labor-administrative office. With the adoption of the sbove new rules, 
the Internal Regulatory Rules for Offices and Factories, adopted and enforced 
py the Bureau of Labor, North Korean People's Committee, on 20 August 1947, are 
rescinded. : 


re 


TO IMPOSE ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES ON VIOLATORS -~ Nodong Sinmun, 2 Feb 50 ~ 


The Standard Labor Discipline Rules stipulate that the present rules have 
been enacted to make more strict the labor discipline in all workshops, to se- 
cure the most efficient utilizetion of manpower and work hours, and to attain 
the most efficient productivity and improvement in the quality of work. The 
present rules shall be enforced on all workers of North Korea without excep- 
tion. 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/08/17 ; CIA-RDP80-00809A000600310656-9 7 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600310656-9 — 


4 


CONFIDENT LAL ; 50X1-HUM 


Part II of the Standard Labor Discipline Rules regulates the method of 
hiring and firing of workers. 


Part III prescribes the basic duties and responsibilities of workshop 
superintendents. The superintendent is responsible for correct distribution 
of manpower, and it is his duty to promote full display of initiative uf the 
workers, and render practical advice. The superintendent is responsible 
for the maintenance of adequate supply of raw materials, work tools, parts, 


-and other necessary materials at all times. No justification shall be made 


for an interruption of preduction because of inadaquate supply of work mate- 
rials due to his negligence. The superintendent must enforce strict labor 
discipline, and exercise a thoroughly uniform control over the workers. He 
must publicize among other workers the superior work experiences of model 
workers. The superintendent must comply with the labor protective law. 


Part III also stipulates the duties of workers. Each worker must make 
honest and sincere efforts for the best accomplishment of his assignments. 
He must abide by the labor discipline rules and execute the instructions of 
his superintendent with utmost accuracy. He must be punctual in arriving at 
work, and must not waste the working hours by desultory talk or by doing 
things not related to his work. He must use his working hours most efficient- 
ly, and exclusively towards production. 


He must keep up with his production norm, or surpass it, and at the same 
time constantly improve the quality of his work. He must also strive con- 
stantly to save raw materials and protect machinery and tools. All the work 
must be carried out strictly in compliance with the oral or written instruc- 
tions of the superintendent, and the worker may not arbitrarily select his work 
or move about from job to job. He must conscientiously safeguard the secrets 
of the workshop. 


Part IV of the Standard Labor Discipline Rules regulate the working hours, 
as to the time of arrival, departure, and rest pericd. The rules stress equi- 
table distribution of work hours among the different shifts, with due consider- 
ation to the different working conditions during the different hours of the day. 
The provisions minutely regulate the method of changing shifts, so that the 
mininum time will be wasted. It is stressed that productive operations must 
not be interrupted by the change in shifte. 


The rules forbid the following during the working hours: 


1. Workers may not participate in the affairs of the political parties 
and social organizations which in any way interfere with the work. They may 
not be compelled to leave workshops to attend rallies. 


2. Handing out of wages or distribution of rations shall be strictly for- 
pidden during working hours. 


3. The workers may not carry liquor into the workshop or work while in- 
toxicated. 


Part V prescribes the rules of punishment. Violation of the Standard La- 
bor Discipline Rules may entail administrative or even criminal prosecution de- 
pending on the nature of violation. The violator may receive one or more of 
the following administrative punishments depending on the seriousness of his 
violation: (1) notice, (2) warning, (3) serious warning, (4) reduction of wages 
or hard labor, and (5) dismissal from work. 


A worker who is late for work, or leaves work early, or is absent from work 
without reason, or who eats lunch before or after the specified lunch period, or 
in any other way uses the working hours other than for productive purpose, may 
receive administrative punishment. ‘The worker who misuses more than 30 minutes 


=D = 


CONFIDENTIAL 


GORPIRERTIN. 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600310656-9 


4 


50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENT SAL 


of his working hours by negligence may lose one full day's compensation and be 
deprived of the pro rata portion of the state-distributed ration. Where the 
misused time is less than 30 minutes, it shall be cumulative, and upon accumu- 
lation of 30 minutes of misused time he shall be charged with one day of leave 
without pay and lose the pro rata portion of the state-distributed ration. 


The workshop superintendent is empowered with authority to conduct hear- 
ings and decide the administrative penalty for each case of violation. How- 
ever, where the violator ignores the nctice of summon for hearing and does not 
appear at the hearing, the superintendent may decide and impose penalty with- 
out a hearing. Unless the violator repeats the violation for the second time 
within 6 months after hie first violation, the penalties other than dismissal 
may be removed from him fie. , from his record?/ 6 months after the first of- 
fense. If the violator later proves himself to be a model worker, the penalty 
may be removed earlier than 6 months. A worker who produced a rejected prod- 
uct must redeem the cost of the material so wasted, in accordance with the 


state law. 


ay 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CORFIQERNTI: 


Pay 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600310656-9 


