25X1A2g 


CLASSIFICATION iSite. 
Approved For Releas@'49$9/05/09 iGEWAERIDPB2100457RAG50NN120 
INFORMATION REPORT op no. 


COUNTRY Keres /ISSR : DATE DISTR. 
SUBJECT Repatriation of Kereans from USSR te NQ, OF PAGES Z 
North Koren 
25X1A6a 
PLACE NO. OF ENCLS. 


{LISTED BELOW) 


DATE OF 25X1X6 SUPPLEMENT TO 
INFO. REPORT NO. 


L. Most of the Koreans whe were detained by the doviet armies with Japanese 
prisoners of war ia Manchuria Were repatriated im Ootober 1949, A spesial 
group of forty young Koreans, however, waa kept in ths USSR and received Special 
trainiag before the membera returned home. Members of the group were all 
vider 30 years old and were former vonscripts of the Japenese army, The 
manner of seleation for their bresent work wes not desert bed, 


in January 1949 the apectal EVoup wes sont to Viadiwestok for ateanaship 

orem training. In January 1950 they were gent from Vladivostok ¢o Wenaan 

1 12%-26, 38-10) via Chengiin (129.49, 41-43} on a weasel of the Korvan~ 
Soviet Trading Company. At Wensaa they were assigned as crew manbera om 
Nerth Kerean somat guard wase ls operating along the coast betwoen Wongan 
and Sekabo-ri (Tongoh'o-ri, 120-36, 38-12) in Kangwon Provinces, Some also 
were assigned ag aechanics in the goverument-controlled Wengan “bi poud lding 
Gemzany. They aro all quartered in the Wongan North larber (Puk Hang jf, a Ny 
nSar tho Wonsan Naval Asademy for State Security Officers. ; 


Eo] 


So Slace ite arrival in Wensen, the special, Broup hax been restricted from 
cantact with the Lleeal population, Members hare talked, however, te fellom- 
workers in the dockyards, about their Situation eas prisenors and the techni cal 
training they received in the USGR. Most mambera prataed Soviet politics and 
commended the hospitable treatment they had received from Servlet authorities 
curing their detention. Group members address one another by Ragaian Bane g, 
ang as a xeagult their Korean names are not known. 


4 ong @f the membore claim that they are arjizes of South Kerea and wish te 
return bome, but their ascents iudieate that they are natives ef North and 
Seuth Hameyong Provinces. Therefore, it was theught by their Wonsan conta cts . 
that these members gare planning te go te South Korea net te return home 
but on seme apecial miasion fer the USSR.* 


25X1X6 
BE os... Nothing was disslosed by any aesibor ef the group about 


ow or when ex by what route he waa te ereceed te Seuth Korea ner about 
Special missions te be carried cut thers, 


This document is hereby regraded to 
pee with thigh 


jaiter of 16 Cctober 1978 from iffe 
Director cf Central Intelligence to the 
Archivist of the United States. 


ate: 2008 


Ap 


