CLASSIFICATION FexeHEETIT™ 25X1A 
Approved For RelSaS@200NU3/06ENCIA-REIRE2-00457R00&1000 5 an 
INFORMATION REPORT | op no. 


COUNTRY Korea CONF IDEN TIAL! DATE DISTR. 20 JUN SO ne) 


SUBJECT = Mail censorship in North Koren NO. OF PAGES 4 r\\ 


\ 


{LISTED BELOW) 


PLACE 25X1C i aa piprer? NO. OF ENCLS. 


ACQUIRED anit 
DATE OF 25X1A tae SUPPLEMENT TO 
INFO. REPORT NO. 


25X1X 


to Ope of the functions of the Burean of State Security in North Korea ‘s 
the censorship of communications, inrluding both domestica and foreign 
Mail. Special attention is given to corregpondence addressed te South 
Korea. 


2, Sanoe the beginning of March 1950, stricter censorahip methoda here been 
put into effect. The rvasen for inazeased soientifie examination of meat i 
48 believed by North Korean residents ta be the fact that, as ssqurity 
restrictions have rediuecd the number of border crossers, and consequently 
the number of Wsriad seascapes earricd between north and scuth, sore iafornati mm 
is being tranemitted by mail. Spectal representatives cf the Bureau of _ 
State Security are stationed in post offices to examine all mai] erriving 
frem South Kersa, and letters are treated chemically to ascertain whether 
they bare any secret writing, Outgoing correspondencs to South Kerea 
ie likewise thoroughly oxamined. 


So  Keoords are kept of political and ideclegisal statexents which are suspeat 
aad ideological tendencies shown in correspondence are carefully studied. 
Som recipients of suzpicioua letters have besa datained by the police 
until the lettera were cleared, and others whosa correspondence was capable 
of unfavorable political interpretation have been charged ag reactionaries 
and punished, 


4. Twe examples are GHON Chung-mydng (7 7? &4), a building contractor in 
Wengan (127-26, 39-10) and KIM Ch’ang-chup (“> 2 ols Ranager of a nooile 
shop in, Nampukeai (07) i’. =), Womaan, GHON wes arrested at the beginning 
of March 1950 because he received a latter from a hephew who manages a 
tailor shop in Chunchon (127-44, 37-52), South Korea. KIM was arrested 
approximately 5 March on suspioion ef being am informant of the Seuth Korean 
army, after he received a letter from a relative in the South Korean aray 
inquiring about his health, It is believed that KIM’s cage will be tried 
jn the People’s Court. More than ten other persens are under detention in 
the Bureay of Stete Security jail as a result of receiving letters from 
Seuth serea, 


Bo Because of the severity of mail censorship and the vyepressive meagures that 
have been taken against correspondents, fewer persons are writing to South 
Korea. The inoreased etrictness of outgoing mail censorship is attributed 
te official desire te conceal the declining esonemic situation in North Kerea, 


This document is hereby .regraded te PLP 
ass, 


CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 


a AB of the ite 
e 


rove 


Next iew Date: 200 


