4 Pe 


Secs Teer ot ae ieee a oe re 


P79-01082A0001 00030003-4 


corr no,_3° 


FAR BAST/PAGLFIC DIVISION 
OFFICE OF REPORTS AND ESTIAATES 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


Staff Study Project #13. 
" SOVEBT ECONOYIC ACTIVITIES IN NORTHERN KOREA 
oS Lae wttsin) / Poe 7 


WORKING PAPER 


we 


NOTICE: Tuis document is a working puper, not 

an officiul CIA lesuance. Tt b.s been co-ordin.+ 
ted within ORE, but not with the IAC Agencies. 

It represents current thinking by specialists in 
CIA, and is designed for use by others engaged in 
eimilar or overlapping studies. The opinions ex~ 
pressed herein may be revised befure final and” 
official publication, It is intended solely for. 
the information of the uduressee and not for furtaer 
' dissemination. 


25X1A9a 


Copy fo 


DOCUMENT NO, 


NOSHANGE IN CLASS. [J 
DECLASSIFIED , 
CLASS. CHANGED TO: TS $ ¢ 

NEXT REVIEW DATE: 


AUTH: ie, 
DATE, “CU ( Reviewer: 372044 


17 | ee 


 cemeninamemnmen mea 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


E 
F 


=n npiOves For. meleace 20001 


Analysia of Soviet economic activities in northern 
Korea Andi cates USSR intent to develop northern Korea into a 
sabsidiary industrial eoonony complonontary to the catkins 
Soviet Far ast (east of Lake Baikal). | 

Ultimate Sovlet ains of world communi zation will be 
steer by the indnustrialization of the Far Zast. Northern Korea, 
firaly dominated by the Ceranntata: ie the only reneining area 
on the Far Sastern mainland (north of India) that is pragentiy ; 
eapable of contributing major industrial productivity towards 
‘furthering Soviet desires, | 

The Northern Korean industrial plant, constructed by 
the Japanese az an adjunct to their own war-naking potential = 
possesses substantial Sanaol ty to produce iron and ateal, A gar 

pilus of industrial cheat cats etoateete para deposits, and a 


Ly 


tiadeveloped hytro-electric power system, In confrast te the 


‘destructive policy pursued by the Soviets in Nenchoria, northern 
Korea suffered only limited damages to her industrial plant. 
Soviet control of northern Kereate economy and the Soviet poliey 
of economic rehadilitation indicate an ndsuhonee’ in northern Korea 
beyond its maintenance as a tuffer area. 

In view of Soviet etripping in Manchuria and China's 
aesperate need for internal Sere onuent; the relatively undana ged 
productive capacity of northern Koren 1s making and will continue | 


to wako a considerable economic contribution te the furtherance 


of Soviet aime in the Far Bact. 2 , 
© 1A‘RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


here ee roel 


apap 


ra Per Terran! 


se pomegar AS reer TEER ToenTay oe) Bd Ree bd sore 


eT ol 


Ww 


; bth: ae ae eee . fi 


ag : ‘ ; i ve ‘ i - . : Bs 
* * Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


Korea, ander the Sopuidea: was ‘é@nployed up to 1931 as an 
econoniic bridgehead onto the Agiatic mainland, and served as the 
staging area for the push into Manchuria. With the outbreak of the 
*China Incident" (1937), Keven vecaee: along with the prgttes indus- | 
trial capacity of Manchuria, an important continental industrial base 
$or supplying the Japanese war effort, This industrial development, 
superimposed on the basic agricul tural life of Korea, benefited li ttle 
the basic saan ey: of the Korean people. . 

By 1940, Korea was contributing significantly to the Japanese 
war effort. The nowly~developed iron and ateel industry reached sek 
profuetion in 194k when over 2,500,000 tons of iron ore were mined, 
and over 900,900 tons of pig iron and 200 ,000 tons of ingot and shaped 
steel were produced, Non-ferrous metal refinerys produced 12,000 tons 
or eluminoun from imported ores, anf a aoueidnsable amount of eset 


ging, lead, and magnesium. ‘The great chemical plant in Hungnam had 


a peak capcaaity of aver 450,000 tona of ni trogen-containing fertilizers. 


‘Smaller chemical plante contributed another 100,000 tons of varied 
chemical products. The hydro-electric power system had @ peak capacity 
of 23 million kilowatts, while over Te million ov of coal (anthracite 
and lignite) were mined in a peak year. Various strategic minerale 
were found and mined in Korea. Graphite, tungsten, asiguaunnas, gold, 
sliver, magnesite, pyrita, copper, and fidoraoas were wired: in appreci- 
able amounts, Other rare minerals such as titeniun, cobalt, and colum- 


bite were mined uneconomically in small quantities becaues of their 


Approved For.Release 2000/08 -RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


baie Baas ‘PREREEE a oe ad cd ee weet eee 1) aa nT eel 


_ Esai Leal ay ne Cd 


Pine eee see Eee 
oe ear . oe 
i 


f Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


w 


haan 
ake z 
military importance. The oil refinery in Yonsan had an annus! capa- 
city of 1,500,000 barrels, and a cracking unit capable of peodusine 
valatively high octene gas. ‘The Korean agricultural economy provided 
Japan with rice and marine products in return for coarser grains from 
other parte of the Japanese enpire. | 


2. Soviet sima in northern Korea 


the advent of Soviet Occupation troops in the heavy industrial 
area north of the 38th parallel signaled a new phasy in the develop- 
ment of northern Korea. Soviet ecmomic policy in Xorea initially 
Siewolved removal of machinery and commodities in scarce eupply within 
the Soviet Union. ‘ith establishment of a stable Commi st-dominated 
Popular Front political system, the Soviets began to rehabilitate 

the northern Korea industrial Bagnall. . 

Soviet control of the reconstituted northern Korea industrial 
capacity assumes importance when the eastern Asiatic mainland is viewed 
as a whole. Koran was a leaser industrial area comared with oither 
China Proper or Nancburia. However, Soviet removals and the die- 


raptions of the civil war have so reduced the industrial capacity 


of Manchuria as to preclude any significant production within the next 


two years. China, finally at peace, must of necessity devote its 


4 


economic effort towards rehabilitating ite, devastated internal economy. 
Northern Korea, however, suffered no lasting damage at a resvlt of the 
Soviet Siccsatton. If the Soviets are to industrialize the Par Bast, 
an industrial base must be formed, Present anglysie indicates that 


northern Korea is being utilised to contribute to these aims. 


Approved For Release 2000/08/2 -RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


aa jon ae oat Caer aes 
eo : as Leesan : 


Se fimratane ie 
<yao 


TO A TT 


Sakmann sementtiiiioesn seen tiiliee nsinel 


iy: 


v 


| 
= 

aay 
ee 
ae 


ie ‘Approved For Release 2000/08/29 - CIA-RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 
coher 
3. Soviet economic activities in northem Korea: 

Northern ores under Soviet Occupation and later-Soviet disiea 
tion, hes passed through three successive phases in its economic de- 
velopment. Although ee phase overlaps to an extent with the pre- 
ceding and following ones, euch is distinct in its purpose. The first 
phuse involved renovel of materiul to the USSR, the’ second is an at- 
tempt on the purt of the Soviets to rehabilitate the northern Korea 
economy, and the third and final phese will Sapt the Renthena Korean 
economy irtegrated with the economy of the Soviet Far Eest. 

A. jst. Phase Soviet Removals (1945-1947) 

The first year of the Russian Occupation of Kores was, 
characterized by chaos throughout the northern Kore:n economy. | 
The industrial plint capacity was reduced by continuous use and 
poor maintenance during the war, by Jepane.s demolition and Korean 
vendslism, and by Soviet removal of key items in some plints. The 
breakdown of civil control end the Soviet policy of supplying oc- 
cupying troops with native foods caused cenioae famine in sone 
areas. Persecution of Japanese technicians end Koresn industrial- 
ists by over~enthusiastic Korean Communists eliminated le=dership 
end direction of industry. Mili tury usage by the Soviet Army of 
the Korean eer es system prohibited shipment of foods and 
materials, The occupation forces, further, absorbed the production 
of the few food processing and consumer goods factories cupable of 


operation, 
| RET 
- Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


* 


SE NEY NNN TER» ETE 
oe = ae =e eS Se eer ee Siererr 0 Terre Co i ina eel IF man WH 


1 REN ERAT a a = 


a, 


‘* Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 


oe 
Removals of industrial equipment to the USSR vere not 
oxtenel te. Highly selective in their looting, the Soviets took 
electrical equipment, the ‘newest precision machinery, and stock- 
piled rav materials. The purpose and extent of Soviet remvals 
in northern Korea is best demonstrated by a comparison with 
Manchuria. Soviet renoval and damage to industrial installations 
in Manchuria was valued at $900 million, an area where the Japanese 
had invested Yen 10-12 billion. Soviet removals from northern 
Korea, on the other hand, wore ecatimated at only $50 million 
vhereas the Japanese investment (mostly in the north) was ostin: 
ated at Yen 4.5 billidn.* The divergencies of policy employed 
iy the two arenas han significance in that the Bo ot desira to 
have an industrial area firmly oriented toverde*teeel? is appar- 
ent, Manchuria, potentially the most powerful economic area in 
porth-seast Asia was by treaty to return to a nation whose inter- 
ests conflicted with those of the Soviet Union. sactnens Korea, 
however, gan echaduloa for oceupation by -- and thus orientation 
to -- the USSR, Realistically, the Soviets removal. from Kan 
ehuria that which might have fallen into the hands of their potan~ 
tial enemy, and preserved that in Korea of which they were gure, 
It is not known what effects the recent change toa 
Commnist-regime in China - Manchuria will have on Seviet econonis 
efforts in hovea “fhe Soviets may shift economic emphasis te 


® No completely accurate figure can be arrived at in computing 
Japanese investments in either Korea or Manchuria, 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79-01082A000100030003-4 . 


cE: 
ae 


a a | Gee | CCE TROT 


"+ Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79-01082A060100030003-4 
| | ae — 


v | : _— 


economic.lly-richer China. 


By late 1946, some order cez.n to energe from the chuo- 
‘the seadid lone of the early Soviet Occupation. In December of 
that yeur & Planning Bureau was set up oy the Koreun Interim Peo- 
ple's Committee, and « National Beonomi¢ Plan for 1947 was ennounced. 
Various laws and "decisions" (ordinunces) of « Socialist nature were 
promulgated. Among these were: the Lund Reform Law, the Hutionali~ 

a gation of Industry, Sex Eouslity Luw, new tx regulations, end other~ 

socio-economic laws, Plenmned recovery was in progress. | 

Soviet participution in this suey recovery is evident. 

' fhe Soviets concentrated early efforts on building up the Peoglets 
army. Early Soviet imports into Kore. were mostly military eguip— 
nent, trucks, and yetroleutts The large Japinese-built arsenal in 
Pyongy ug is reported to have eturted limited production of Soviet 
weapons. (Whether this represente actusl yrocuction or just ceeom~ 
bly is not known). | 

The civilian sector of tie economy wis not neglected. 
During 1947, imports of pituminous coke, recon?itioned ic chiie rs) 
petroleun, und foodstuffs, were reported as being received in 
northern Korea. Conmunist nes pu2er accounts of Soviet shipments 
to northern Korea stute that 50% of total inyorts in 1946 and 
30% of totul imports in 1948 consisted of iteus for inuustrial 
use. Soviet ships were encared in moving northern Kore.n export 
commodities to Hongkong and other Fer Eustern ports, returning 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : C P79-01082A000100030003-4 


ds 


rT AN) TOUFOPTERTDN «TENN WTO! OTONTT.«« ETT. «TRON ETOUNWRSD SFT), ||P], ree, rrr: Peer: very, Rees enpener) ecm Sarig” RWS]! SPE!SEEerteerens i rrteremage eee eres 


an efatente were sent to atu = in Soviet 


be 


= 
= 


“4 


‘— Dar we ie 


“a s a 
me we 


She 8 : 
2s a _ s Me 


industrial Sonber of ‘the ‘Northeast. : 


. 


ee 


96/08/29 : CIA RDP79- 01082A 00100030003- “4 


| 


‘It is. believed thet, through these control devices, 7g USSR 4 


-01082AG00 


arp of the ‘Eprpan econoay. The oe iniustrieh plant, as 


erected by the te BG.8, WaB constructed to nect the needs of an, 


empire, not of Kor 4 itsel?. Thus northern Koren, dere does 


‘not possess the facilities to convert all its iron and steel pro- i 
| duction into consumer goods ond nachinery, or sufficient erable 
| “Lend to justity. 450,080 tons of fertilizer production, the soviet 


- Unto, then, ay tate & major phere of the Koreun iesaderad. euga~ 


Ze Hae 


ving in peturn ; yaw naterisls and. consumer | Boeds, aoe 


cane tng & serious otrain on the Koreun economy. 


a Reliable reports indicate that over 308 ‘of the generated 


Ag exported to fanchurie end the Soviet Maritime 


| provinces. The. Soviets receive more than 50% of the output of 


the ) tron and steel and ai trogenous chendo.d industries, 


Presence of Soviet Oceupation forces: in northern Korea in- 


ection of thé economy Siear Lines desired by the USSR. 


ate withdrawal of pEoeee in late 1948, the Soviets reveuled the 


. various methods oy wnich ‘they intended to continue economic control. 


oh tb 


to atrgct Korenn ‘economic setivity and policy alone Lines most fuvor— 


able to, Ateelf,. 


i 


al 
= ee oe 


= = 


Se ee ee ee ee 


rok ee ee eer eo 


. under the "bend ga” auspices of the Fussian Amy, the government. 


a Wilt around a herd core of Moscow and ‘Yenen trained Korean 


: ~ Gonmani st. Dissenters to the regime remaining in the north have 


be underground and rhak ruthless gupeeesion if they are 


s Rese 


reveal od yhtle. the 5 more vocal and active rebels have fled to the 
‘aatttuary of the nth Maintaining ssauea by pollee-atate 
nathods, the government hes faithfully followed Soviet direction. 
Particularly gyident are Communist inspired econonle hheasures 

euch a3 satisca als of industry, ntlotaent of raw eres 

and # 2nd shed production, confi seatory taxation, ‘economic planning 
in terns of cole to be filled, forced labor, and trial collectivi- 


Pation. 


nn ne 


‘Diect oanteol of. cortatn phases of the northern Korean 


econony was exerci sed by Soviet official ana seni-official, uae za~ 


tions during the occupation period ‘which ended in iets ihe. Since 


that time no further firm evidence has Been received as to the — 


continged presence of such organizations in the abies It is 
relieved, however, that ‘they continue to Operate ei ther overtly 


or under the cover of the Soviet Mission in northern Forea.* 


“Moat. Prominent of these orgnnt zations, “roped 1a ‘ioe, . 


Was so , branch of the Soviet Mint atry of Trade. This agency, broken 


es notes thet MOPTRANS, ‘the. abet ' 
joint stock transrortation company, has taken over some of ‘these 
dutios. is 


be. 
: | 
| 


7 Soviet Ung a. pra arrengee for terns of rev ent 


In essence 
a eee 


: oS - “northern Korea is estima ted at between 1500 and ap. | Some JOO 


are “i gaged in no nenll itary activitt 88 as aivisere, diplomats, 


and 8 cur ty. 01 totals. In view of the trained personnel 


" shortegos within ‘he Sviot Union iteel?, these figures lenés 


a “emphasis to Soviet, {uportancs attached %o northern Korea. Al- 
. , Hh gh the nuaber engaged, in technical and aavisory activi ties. 


in’ the northern at conony te not known, their presence ig often 


«ep 


fon with thetr autios and. ‘contributions to the economy, Torough 


PRR EAR 


L.of the Korean soonpgy ban be’. 


7 an most factories vith any Productive | 
a. a } 


tn the vint ar of 19ly-tg, the Soviets 2 Dogan githireding 


aaa 


attosted to in propeganda, trondoaats fron northern Karen, in connect 


et ea oe 


ce 
1 


q 


17 1" 


feo: 


e the Ko vega 


Pepe 8 Committees ext thetr - Buren of t Tntuatny. In tho ee ine 


“he antting up within northern Keres. of ae 


technical institutions has done, mach to tngure a hard core of 


Sorte Koreans in economic fields in the future. 


dD. Join nt Stock Coupantcs - 


The most overt: nethod of Soviet sconoste aes ip 


‘nor! orn *érea te exercised through Soviet pe rtieipat ton: 3 2 


_ fan wertone, Korean econonte caterrises, The devia ‘own a8, whe 


secbars (one : tran recent. revelati tons nate by Yugo starts iD 


foriet acti ities in eS. fer in their. oye ecousuy) , 8 


ee oe a o a 


eum and bi tuminou cont. 


? 


of bi tumtagne oak ‘trom Sachadn is vroagtt 


ee ee ee ee Ue 


“tee pote 
2a 


y st pricing potter. “The involves the sale ae rthern 


ip ‘the Soviet Uaton at artifictelly-loy, Spvd st 


ae 


prices and the purchase by the catellite of, SOvash, goods at the 


s 


due to intemal shortages 3 in the Upsr, the 


ae Soviets are not able te nest all the demands Placed upon then by 


"the AGF! i ah. eeonowy, they have managed to provide ouffictent 


‘eeeential. Supa te to male possible a steady, inereise in northern 


Korean production of erode deetzed Oy. the USSR, 


Ye ee a a 


= iar 


= ot oT 


Se 


"et i eT 


<4) ll 1 


pom Baad eae Sole mining eqitpinent, and tntenetvs Soviet 


seoinical: assi stance. 


-— of 


& good Indication of the aceroe of recovery is @ veo 


in the trae 3 statistics released y the northern Korean ‘gremnent. | 
‘Trade between northem Korea, and the USSR was mn mi2don robles in 
a 194, sg, million rubles in igh? and. 264 million rubles tn 194s, 
target Level for 1989 fe 337 aillion rubles.* | | 

6. 


th oe 


of the coups atively wall- developed industrial area ee of the | 
36th parall el is not obvicua unless viewed against a background of - 
the USSR's position ta ‘the Far Rast. aires 


fhe Soviet Union, now has intensified interests. in the. . 


m4 é r eae : 


Yar Ratt, Bee j Landes of Chine is under control mee a govern 


» 1 is ‘adetioult te “‘Grebedate {his into dollars, pacaies of Russie. ; 
figoal | oan nder the Soviet syetem a aatellite sella it's 
Senet 


ih oe en ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee el 


‘nae rare 


ve a developing Chia decones a neoosai ty for the furt rherane of 


Sosmunt st citinte atne in the Far fast. ‘The industrial, capacity es f ne 
of the. S | 


‘ 
I il 


: ‘ar fast (east of Lake Batkal) is relatively smal) 


a 


A cl Lege A ont 


Northern Korea te capable of supplementing Soviet industrial prodiie- 


‘tion in the. Ampe nt fields of chentoals, tren end stool, dydron - 


electric ; power, and Light pete enufacture., The 9 million lakablt~ ie 
| ‘ 

ante of northern Torea reprovent an daperians teste in the man- 

power + defy otent Soviet Far Beat. the ner eee Korean. pegple « are. : 


Bot On a somprable 11 veracy level with the peeple of ‘Soviet Union, 


bot an cee 304 have at least a eramuar school odugatt apd | 


: ‘thus are more susogrti ble to technical training that ars 3 oat ‘other 
peoples, of the north-east Asia area. , ote = 


-Horthorn, Koren. Mader ussian exporvision and Atreotton, a 


is dn a position at present to contribute ‘Atrectly to Soviet sooner | 


needs in Aoviteping the Asiatic mainland. 


x 


Lo penavene 


