ierrrtAcay g 


Ay 


‘L. 


e 


INFORMATION REPORT  onjo 


TASSIFICATION a 25X1A 
Approved For Release:2000 Fol 1GeNGHARBIR 82-0045 70047 0) Ms 


DATE DISTR. 20 JAN 50 


CONFIDENTIAlso. oF paces 


NO. OF ENCLS. 


GAISTEO BELOW) 


25X1X 
SUPPLEMENT TG 


In May 1949, vnhysical examinations to determine fitness for military service 
were instituted in North Korea, Men between eighteen and thirty were ex= 
anined for active services those between thirty-one and fifty-five were exe 
amined for reservs duties or rear area troong. Classification categories of 
gcod, fair, or bed were noted on each individual's identific-tion card. The 
éxaninations, conducted by doctors in the army or in local hosnitels, oce 
curred in Vonsan from 18 to 25 dune, in Yonchon (127=04, 38-06) County from 
20 to 25 June, and in all the cities and counties of Xangwon Province at 
about the same time. 


After the vhysical examinntion, a conscrintion movenent was leunched in 
verioug areas by the Peonle's Front and the Democratic Youth Leapue. The 
primary targets anneared to be younger members of farm families, esnecially 
thoge who had received land through tostewar distribution. There was less 
nressure on sons of former landlords ani farmers who owned their own land. 


iu Chok Chon Myon (ih YM ), Pogwon G2, ye ) County, Fangvon Province, 
Sive members of the Democratic Youth League of Cholsanni, Vonsan, assembled 
ohout tventy-five youths of conscrintion age in the townshin adninistrative 
office. CHU Yong-hun (% wk #) ), one of the Democratic Youth League ren, 
made a sneech to the local youths urging them to join the North Korean army 
and help acquire South Korean territory to be redistributed ae land for voor 
farmers, and coneluding with a request for volunteers. When the sroup failed 
to resvond, PAK Tlaeokin (Ab HF ), a local youth of 26, secretary of the 
Farners!' Union and known as an ardent Comrunist, announced thet anyone who 
vefused to join the army could only be considered a reactionary element. 
Vhen a second request was made, the entire sroup felt compelled to volunteer. 


Rural residents showed little tendency to avoid conscrintion. even though 
they accevted it unwillingly, but in the towns, »ersons of military ate were 
nore reluctant. Alarmed by accounts of fighting on the 38th Yarallel, some 
young men flea acon their homes and crossed intu South Korea. ‘To ure sant 
such attennts, the Bureau of Internal Affairs restricted the movenents of 
“eraone eligible fer conserintion and in some cases even Dlaced them under 


CONFIDENTIAL 


_CLASSIFICATION Ci 


ee Se 


nn BSN te et aN 


Archivist cf the United Siates, 
Next Review Date: 2008 


Approved For Release 20\0@\s LA DP& a ROOF TO059006 


is document is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 
letter of iS Costober 1979 from the 
Director of Central intelligence to the 


