Approved for Release: 2025/06/18 C00800623 
~ 2493 Sy 
33 | é 
ee TOBE Be RET 


GENERAL 


..US to approach USSR on Korean invasion--The Department 


of State has instructed US Ambassador Kirk in Moscow to 
raise the question of the Korean invasion with Soviet For- 
eign Minister Vishinsky and to ask the USSR to use its 
influence to effect the withdrawal of the invading forces 
immediately. The Department hopes that such an approach 
will make it clear to the USSR that aggressive action by 
the Satellites involves Soviet prestige directly, thus forcing . 
the Kremlin to be more cautious in pushing such tactics to 
extremes in the future. The Department also considers 
that prompt and explicit exposure in Western propaganda 
of Soviet responsibility for a clear-cut case of aggression 
should go far toward disrupting the increasingly effective 
Soviet ‘‘peace offensive.’’ 


. Dutch reaction to Korean invasion--Dutch Foreign Minister 
Stikker has expressed the opinion to US Ambassador Chapin 
in The Hague that if the US should ‘‘permit’’ South Korea to 
fall, ‘‘the consequences for all Asia, but particularly for 
Southeast Asia, would be absolutely ‘disastrous,’ ’ and the 

. Western world could “‘write off’’ the whole area forever. 
Stikker added that the effect on Western Europe would be 

‘"lamentable.’’ The Dutch Foreign Minister believes the 


action in Korea to be “one more Russian bluff,’’ but a very — 


serious one, and he is convinced the USSR does not want war 


- and would back down if strong, immediate counteraction were | 
‘taken. Stikker declared there was no time to wait for Security 


_ Council action and expressed the hope that the US would land 


troops. Stikker concluded his interview with the Ambassador 


me saying ‘‘all eyes are on America.’ 


: 144%.» 
eS 


* Approved for Release: 2025/06/18 C00800623. 


2 ¥ JON Lowe 


1327 


Approved for Release: 2025/06/18 C00800623 


om 3 | | P SECRET 


.3. Soviet troop movement against Yugoslavia reported-- 


a considerable number of troops 
are being moved through Rumania toward Bulgaria and 


ny Yugoslavia. ‘seven military trains 
| composed of fifteen to twenty cars which are completely 
blacked -out are transporting tanks, artillery, and munitions 
to the south. 


(CIA Comment: CIA believes that a buildup of 
Soviet military equipment and strategic transport facilities 
in the Balkans has been under way for some time. There 
is little evidence, however, that Soviet military personnel 
in the Balkans have been increased sufficiently to enable 
the USSR to undertake military action in the area at this 
time.) 


" Approved for Release: 2025/06/18 C00800623 


8 rree, Tas ee ee : 


