25X1A2g 


ae : Approved For Rbtease 1999/09 PCCTRR DIES ONSCZA000 | 0 Gkaaed 
wTELLGrAk a CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPOF? a 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


COUNTRY Foreign Radios DATE OF 
INFORMATION 24-::'7 June 1950 


SUBJECT FOREIGN RADIO REACTIONS TO 


THE KOREAN SITUATION a 
HOW DATE DIST. 3 June 1950 
PUBLISHED Radio Broadcasts , 
WHERE 
PUBLISHED NO. OF PAGES 4 
DATE 


PUBLISHED 24 - 27 June 1950 
aa SUPPLEMENT TO 


LANGUAGE Several : REPORT NO. 


ENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
OF TI ITHIN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT 50 
U. 5. C., 31 AND 32,4 SMISSION OR THE REVELATION 
OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TO SON IS PRO- 
HIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM I 


SOURCE FBID (These strictly factual reports are based solely on monitored fore gn radio 
broadcasts received in Washington up to 7 a.m, 27 June 1950, Thi: re- 
produces two of a series of reports prepared in response to a spec al request. ) 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMAT‘ON 


FOREIGN RADIO REACTIONS TO THE INVASION OF SOUTH KGREA, 26 JUNE 1950 


INTRODUCTIGN: To judge by monitored broadcasts, practically all radios -f the vorld ~*~ 


are devoting considerable time to reportage of the invasion of South Korea, A: yet, however, . 
there have been few extended commentaries on the subject, 


THE COMMUNIST RADIOS; The North Korean radio at Pyongyang continues to broad ast a version 
designed to create the impression that it. was the American-controlled "Rhee ging” which in- 
vaded North Korea, and that the North Korean action was therefore a justified counter-move, 
This is the version that has been picked up and relayed, without comment as y:t, by Radio 
Moscow and the Satellite radios, (An Austrian Communist paper, however, char.;0s on ite own 
responsibility that the alleged South Korean invasion of North Korea represen.s the culmin- - 
ation of a “long-prepared American war provocation.”) Radio Moscow has also >egun to quote 
details of the fighting as reported by Western news services; today's PRAVDA > ublishes. such 
. @etails, as well as the original North Korean claim that South Korean forces ‘launched sur- 
- prise invasions against areas north of the 38th parallel throughout ite entir: breadth.” 


Radio Pyongyang has broadcast few references to the fighting in terms of full-scale war. 
But general mobilization has reportedly been ordered in North Korea; there ar» Pyongyang 
broadcast references to South Korean cities that have already been "Liberated ' (the Soviet- 
Communist euphemism for taking over); and the Pyongyang radio stresses Syngma’: Rhee'ts in- 
tention to incite, and his responsibility for, a Korean civil war, Radio Mos ow purportedly? 
quoted a Pyongyang broadcast to the effect that the North Korean government hia “entrusted 
the Ministry of Home Affairs to take decisive measures to subdue the enemy in the event the. , 


South Korean puppet authorities fail to put an immediate end to this war ventire.... 7 | a 


. abe” 
Radio Pyongyang makes much of the issue of Korean unification, It is claimed that the North 
Koreans have done practically everything in their power. to bring about peacef ii unification 
of the country, but that such unification has consistently been obstructed by the “Rhee. 
gang" under ordera from the Americans, Such claims appear in the context of -eferences to 
the alleged invasion launched by the South Koreans, Pyongyang broadcasts als> indicate that 
a considerable effort is being made to instill “hate and hostility against th» enemy," the 
enemy being defined as the "Rhee rang" obedient to the American imperialists, There have 
also been a few references to the North Koreans’ “powerful fighting might." 


WESTERN-ORIENTED COMMENT: Speculations aired over Western-oriented radios in:lude statements 
that this might be the beginning of the feared third world war; that the outc me in Korea 
will be decisive for the future of all Asia, particularly Southeast Asia; and that American 
prestige and influence in Asia will stand or fall depending on the type of action the 
United States undertakes in support of the South Korea A aA 


CLASSIFICATION — 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100050-4 


25X1A2g 


- Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CUA-RER TAPGTETA000 1 peagllata 


SESLRICTED 


, & 
ce <9 


"OREIGN RADIO REACTIONS TO THE SITUATION IN KOREA, 27 JUNE 1950 


SUMMARY: ‘The Communist Pyongyang radio, echoed by all other Communist media ‘throughout the 
rorld, continues to maintain the fiction of North Korean counterattacks” on forces invading 
"rom the south, But as early as a day after the fighting began, a series of Pyongyang broadcasts : 
shemselves belie this fiction and reveal in unmistekable terms that the North Korein offensive 
ras launched as an “all-out war of righteousness" for complete annihilation of the Rhee regime, 
-or the “liberation” of ell South Korea, and for “unification of the Fatherland,“ One of these 
sroadcasts--the appeal by the North Korean leader Kim Tl Sung--has already been picvked up and 
repeated by TASS, But, although devoting reportage to the Korean situation, Moscot' has not yet 
issued any comment beyond the contention that the U.N, Security Council's action o: 25 June was 
Jevoid of any legal power since it did not stem from a unanimous vote by the Counc: 1's permanent 
members, Pyongyang, in its first comment on the Council's resolution, repeats thi: point; but 
it also flouts U.N, authority over the Korean situation "because, first, the U.N, «id not approve . 
she membership" of North Korea and because North Korea "did not perticipate in the discussion, “ 


There continues to be a paucity of independent comment from European Satellit: radios, One 
of them ia brash enough to claim that the South Korean “provocation” was inspired -y American 
imperialist desire to “discredit the world peace campaign" (which, as a result of he North Korean 
action, has been sarcastically derided over several Western radios), It is said twt the “pro- | 
rocation™ must be met by renewed “peace-partisan” efforts against the atomic bomb ind the threat’ - 
of war, a sentiment echoed by the French Communist HUMANITE, (Radio Moscow's "nea se" propaganda, 
by the way, appears to be continuing at full force, ) 


A rough tabulation of the great number of Western-oriented comments indicates that the 
following ide.s were most stressed, in the order given: (1) intense interest in wiat the U.5, ' 
will do and in the effect of this action on U.S, prestige, influence, and leadership; (2) concern. 
about the possibility of a spreading conflagration; (3) the possible repercussions in Asia as @ 
whole, but particularly in Southeast Asia; (4) the exposed “phony” character of th> Soviet- 
Communist “peace” offensive, Early comment from Western-oriented radios expressed grave concern . 
mbout the possibility of an immediately larger East-West military clash that might reevlt from 
American action and Commnist counter-action in Asia; but the more recent comments show somewhat | 
leas concern over auch a prospect, 


KIM IL.SUNG’S APPEAL FOR SUPPORT OF THE “ALL-OUT WAR": The North Korean broadcast most equarely . 
contradicting the Commnist fiction of a North Korean "sounterattack” was issued, #ith Kim Il 
Sung himself at the microphone, slightly more than 24 hours after the fighting began, In it, 

Kim treats the fighting as an actual war, spelling out the North Korean objectivee and issuing 
directives for total North Korean conversion "to a wartime basis" and for South Kcrean sabotage 
and "partisan" resistance, These are outlined below, 


Ob jectives 


L, Defense of the “Democratic People's Republic of Korea and its constitution. * 

2, Complete defaat of the South Korean armed forces and elimination of the "fascist 
Rhee puppet regime," 

3, Complete “liberation of the southern half of our Fatherland" from the »ule of the 
"Rhea traitor gang” and enslavement by the American imperialists, 

4 Restoration in the “southern half" of the "people's committees, the trie people's 
govermments, under the banner of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea," ; 

5, Unification of the Fatherland and the establishment of a powerful, deocratic, 
independent Korea,” 


North Korea's Total War Effort 


1, The A . The “people's armed forces must demonstrate their valor, co.rage, am in- 
itiative in the struggle to defend--at the cost of death--the northern half, to save our 
fellow countrymen in the southern half, and to unify the Fatherland,” They aust not spare 
their lives. They “are equipped with crack modern arms" and should fight wih “noble 


determination,” ~ 
' 2, The People. All northern business must be “converted to wartime basis. Ail resources 


must be mobiiized in order to mop up the enemy quickly and mercilessly. " Ali saboteurs, 
rumormongers, and spies must be detected and purged, "All those who obatruc: the waging 
of the all-out war... must be executed, © Industrial workers must defend all their 
establishments from enemy violations and "faithfully fulfill production quotss and other 
tasks so as to fill the requirements from the bpattlefronts," Farmers must issure the 


ces’ fo w ; —— nESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100050-4 


. 25X1A2q 
. Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A0001001 


(EPR LOC BE = 
ere Hee 


4 


3, 
ma 


South Korean Partisan and Sabotage Activities 


1. The Partisans. Intensify offensives, absorb the masses, cut) off commoicaticns lines, 
execute traitora, restore peopls's committees. carry out destruction, stir confusicn in the. 
enemy's rear areas, : : 

2, Workers, Organize general strikes, stage riots, and’collaborate with the partisans, 
"But defend factories, eatablishments, mines, ‘and railways." . 

. Farmers, Do not give food to the enemy. Engage in guerrilla warfare, Deferd this 
year’s crops, , : 

4, Individual Industrialists, “Extend aid to the people's armed forces acd cooperate 
in-the struggle to free our national economy from the American monopoliats.” — 

5, Intellectuals. Participate in a “wasa political publicity campaign, Mercilessly 
expose the crimes of the Rhee traitor gang.... Organize mass riots," 

' 6, The Southern Armed Forces, “Don't miss thé opportunity to fight for the Fatherland 
and turn your guns against the Rhee traitor gang. Come over to the side of the pecple.... 
By rising in opposition to the people's enemies you will occupy honorable places ix the 
colum of the fighters for freedom and independence, * 


This broadcast has been followed by others along similar lines, addressed individually to “people 
of the southern half,” youth, women, workers, etc, "Concentrate our might in the war to oppose . 
the American imperialists and the U.N, Korean Commission, and to overthrow and szash the Syngman 
Rhee gang.” 


Other broadcasts have described the “mass meetingsthat are being held everywhere in liberated 
areas to welcome the people's armed forces,” “People's Committees” are allegedly being restored 
in an atmosphere of jubilation, enthusiasm, and pledges that the “new government shall never 
again be usurped by reactionary fascists," 


NON-KOREAN COMMUNIST COMMENT: Broadcasts from Communist-controlled radios outseids Koree have 
been limited primarily to reports of North Korean successes andi to quotations fren the North 
Korean radio, (It has been reported, without confirmation aa yet, that Radio Moscow interrupted 
a regular transmission to anneunce that North Korean tanks had entered Seoul,) As is so often 
the case, hovever, the Soviet-controlled Berlin radio is less reticent about issting an indepen- 
dent commentary which cites a statement by Defense Secretary Johnson and the "speed with. which 
the U.S, reacted to the outbreak of hostilities in Korea“ as “ample proof that the Korean 
adventure has been well prepared in advance by the Americans,” The "U.S, warmongers” are said 
to "regard the Korea fighting as an opportunity for testing the vigilance of the peaceloving 
nations and their defensive strength," (This, it may be noted, is nothing but ar inversion of 
the motives attributed by several Western-oriented radios to the actions of the Commnists in 
Korea.) Dragging in the “peace campaign," the commentator warns that the Americen-sponsored 
"provocation" in Korea must be met by heightened “peace” efforts; for the defenders of peace 
have learned from the experience of the two world wars that if the U.S, warmongers are today : 
transforming the cold war in the Far East into a hot war, they will tomorrow droj atom bombs on - 
Europe. That is what we are up against.” 


YUGOSLAV BROADCASTS: To date, the Yugoslav radio has devoted its broadcasts abovt Kores to re- ; 
ports rather than comment; and Belgrade says that the Yugoslav press is reporting “news agency 
accounts of operations and announcements of both sides of the conflict," The ra¢io reports the | 
Security Council resolution, but says nothing about Yugosiavia’s abstention, Belgrade also re- 
porta that the U.S, places “responsibility for the armed clash,.. on the Soviet laion, since 

the Democratic Republic of Korea is under ita domination," 


WESTERN -ORIENTED COMMENT: The ideas most frequently stressed in Western-oriente¢ comment have 
been indicated in the "summary" section above. Other reactions, expressed less {requently, 
include the following: 
Reasons for the North Korean invasion 
To test American reaction. 


A “trial of nervea,” 


To convince the people in Asi# that they can expect no real help from the Unitec 
Nations, 


restricrep Ft \TRIG) ee 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100050-4 


25X1A2q 
Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : Sutteoneeey | 


RES LRIOTES fe 


se, Hi 


Implications for Europe 


Parallels drawn between what happened in Korea and what could be expected in Germany if 
a peace treaty is drawn and occupation forces withdrawn, 


Deplorable effects of a South Korean collapse on European countries which regard the U.6,. 
as the only country capable of assuring the defense of the free world. 


Other _ . 
The supreme test to which the U.N. is now put. 
The possibility of Korea ‘’s becoming another Spain. 


The U.S, dilemma: if active measures are taken, there is a danger of wor'd war; if not, » 
U.S, impotence will be revealed and will prevent efforta to organize Agia ageinst : 
Communism from being taken seriously. 


The possibility of intensified activities by all Communist movements thro ighout Asia, 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100050-4 


