as n 25X1A2 
* Approved FUASSHFEGATEONG99/09/0 tek paeeGAeik000100100051-3° 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. REPORT NO 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


COUNTRY Foreign . DATE OF 
INFORMATION 26-28 June 1950 
SUBJECT FOREIGN RADIO REACTIONS TO THE KOREAN 
SITUATION AND THE PRESIDENT ‘S DECISION 
HOW eee Pate Ey DATE DIST. A? June 1950 
PUBLISHED Radio Broadcasts . 


WHERE 
regs NO, OF PAGES 2 
pate os | 
PUB RH ED 26-28.June 1950 

SUPPLEMENT TO 
LANGUAGE Several REPCRT NO, 00-F-111 


ONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 


Osc. 31 AND 92,5 etn gagygpssion or Tux nevatarion - THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORM: TION 


oF 18 CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TOA N 1S PRO- 
WIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF This FORM IS FRU 


SOURCE FBID (This strictly factual report is based solely on monitored foreig:: radio broad- 
casts received in Washington up to 7 a.m,, 28 June 1950. It repr duces the 
third ina series of reports prepared in response to a special rejuest. ) 

SUMMARY: | Moscow has reacted to the President's decision with much greater peed than it 
did to the North Korean’ invasion itself, Its first report of the decision appea:ed in —— a 
dispatch, transmitted eight hours after public announcement of the decision, Am its first . : 
| commentary ~~a PRAVDA article--was broadcast only 13 hours after the announcement ‘This article 
represents Moscow's first independent comment on any phase of the Korean situation, It takes 
the position that the decision is tantamount to an “act of direct aggression"* ajainst North 
Korea and Communist China, The President's statement and actions, "without (pos: war) precedent, '' 
are cited as “added proof, .. that U.S. ruling circles no longer restrict themsel: es to preparing 
for aggression, ig But there is little expression of dcuatenctnpent or velligeren « in the 
article, The only ominous statement--"Have they nek. gone too far, however?”"--is followed 


immediately by the familiar charge that the U.S. is “brutally violating the U.N, Charter," This 


charge is supported by a narrowly legalistic type of reasoning. 


ae The Soviet-controlled Berlin radio is the only other Commatie’ source from thich radio 
comment on the decision has been received, An ia so often the case, it exercise: mach less re- : 
straint, Two and a half hours after the announcement « Berlin commentator hurls out such phrase: 
as "U.S, war criminals," "criminal and provocative action,” “peace is threatened,” “immediate 
danger of war for Europe," and calls for a mans public opinion campaign against ‘this new crine — 
against peace," At the same time, however, listeners are advised: "Do not worry. The free 


pations will not need war," | : . 


AEN AE TE a n+ 


are ere RR TS RS SAS PIS SPSS APPS Et TST = 
* r, The phrase “direct aggression" is repeated four times in the article. 


. CLASSIFICATION . = 
ee pe | | DISTRIBUTION =e — ++ -—}| -- ot --| 
FRI ene ee S| 


ary Xa) 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100051-3 


= & Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A: 
RESTRICTED |; 


A considerable number of brief and generally cautious comments on the Pres. cent’s decision 
have been received from Western-criented radios, They are about equally divider. between expres. - 
sions of approval and of concern about the "seriousness" of the situation. 


"DIRECT AGGRESSTON" AND "VIOLATION OF THE U.N, CHARTER": Prior to the Presiden ‘s decision onl: 
one Communist radio had attempted to foresee the “policy that might be expected .f the J,5. in rn- 
action to the Korean situation. Broadcast at approximately the same time the decision was made 
public, a Radio Warsaw commentary “assumed” that to save Syngman Rhee the U.S, sould “make use »f 
its obedient majority in the Security Council... to intervene,,,." Whether or :icot this represaite 
the general expectations of the Soviet-Communist elite, it is of some interest (-n this connection 
that, aside from charges of “direct aggression," PRAVDA's primary substantive oc iticism of the ° 
President's decision has to do with its alleged violation of the U.N, Charter, But it doee not 
make any reference to an American-dominated Council majority nor, curiously enorigh, to “he 
previously alleged illegality of any Council decision adopted without Soviet ae sicn, In- 
stead, PRAVDA merely states categorically that the U.N, never “empowered the U.!: - Goverment te 
undertake against Korea and China those measures which Truman announced yesterdi: y. Conmequenty, 
the U.S,, “acting as though the U.N, did not exist,.,.. apparently intended to pace (this act a 
direct aggression) before the U.N, (as) a fait accompli.” 


PRAVDA’s charges that Truman’s decision represents “direct aggression" and that it shows “in al. 
clarity that the imperialist warmongers are determined to achieve their ends an’ not stop half 
way,” are essentially part of a long-familiar Soviet propaganda pattern. The only new element 

ig the use of the qualifying word, “direct.” Although Moscow has repeatedly aciused the U.S, @° 
“aggression” and “aggressive” policies, it has rarely, if ever, accused the U.S. of “direct 
aggression,” Otherwise, however, PRAVDA’s charges are no stronger than the usu! charges made -n 
many other contexts, But PRAVDA's relative restraint iz more than compensated :or by two Radio 
Berlin commentaries on the President's decision, Utilizing the highly-charged -brases mentionei 
in the “summary” section above, they appear intent upon arousing their listener: to a “ever pitih 
of fear and hatred of the U.S, “criminals” who are bombing Korean women and chi dren and who: 
“even now” may be shelling villages and towns on the Korean coast, “Today it in the brave, 
courageous Korean people, Tomorrow it will be we who are to be hit. Declare yur passionate 
aympathy with,,. the Korean people, ... Down with the U.S, imperialists,” say:: one commentata’. 
“Why should there be another holocaust?” asks the other, It is also claimed thit “the American 
war ordered against the Korean people by the President” had been “long prepared end dastardly 
calculated, ” 


Monitored Pyongyang broadcasts have not yet mentioned the President's decision, Buta “central 
press review," broadcast seven hours after the decision was announced, refers t:: the aileged 
“mobilization” on 27 June of American warplanes which shot down a North Korean -ighter near Seal, 
"The Korean people are becoming more indignant at such interference,” says Pyonyang, “Aggres- 
sive American imperialists, withdrew from our country immediately! Take your b.oody hands off . 
our Fatherland immediately!" 


y 
Except for a Radio Berlin appeal to sign the Stockholm Appeal to ban atomic weacons, none of th: 
above broadcasts so much as mentions the atom bomb, 


WESTERN-ORTENTED COMMENT: Among the favorable reactions to the President's dec: sion, here are 

positive references to America's regained prestige and to the possibility that ‘action might 
succeed where words have failed." Most of the allusions to the resulting "seri: usness* of the 
situation do not elaborate; nor do most of them evince any impression of panic, A Bogota news- 
paper, however, is said to have issued a special edition with the banner headli:e, “World War-- 
The Third World War Has Broken Out in Agia, A Swiss commentator feels that “the Korean war 
might now well become a second Spanish war," And a Madrid commentator regards be President's - 
step aw one that “might bring about a conflagration," 


cOTRIGTED 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100051-3 


