_ Approved GadsEReASeM 999/09 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


. iB INFORMATION FROM 5X1 A2 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. g 


REPORT NO. 


COUNTRY ¥Fage DATE OF 


INFORMATION 30 Jume - 2 July 1§50 


SUBJECT FOREIGN RADIO REACTIONS BO THE KOREAN 
SITUATION AWD THE PRESIDERT'S DECISIONS, Ne. + & 5 


HOW DATE DIST. 7 daly 1990 
PUBLISHED Radice Broadcasts 

WHERE 

PUBLISHED NO. OF PAGES % 

DATE 


PUBLISHED 30 Jume - 2 July 1950 
SUPPLEMENT TO no.¥-131,112, 
LANGUAGE Several . REPORT NO. 133,114 


: T CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
OF THE JU HIN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT 5&0 


vac GoNTeNTS IH MNY MARKER To ett EUimmapagagd, 1S? #0: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 
HIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM 18 PROHTB 


SOURCE FBIB (This stristly factual repert is based selely on monitored foreijm radic bread- 
casts received in Washington up te 7 a.m., 2 July 1950. It rep: ednecs the 
6th and 7th of a series ef reperts prepared im respense te a spveial request. ) 


NUMBER 4, 1 July 1950 


Te date, available menitered fereiga radie breadeasts yield enly ene Commnist 


reference te tke President's 30 June announcemgnt autherizing the use of Amorisan ground feree: 
in Keres, This cones from Seviet-contrelled Berlin whieh cites the President's latest 
decision as further "preef” ef the new-fenilier Seviet-Commnist charge that U.S. "aggression" 
in Korea had been thoroughly and deliberately prepared. Otherwise, comments fom Soviet- 
Commnist sources add few new elements to their propaganda line. They continu: to associate 
the Auaxtoan "aggression" with the need for intensified efforts in conjunction with the 


Stockholm-Appeal "peace campaign." 


Western-oriented radios have reported the announcement very briefly, and a: yet without 
comment, Prior to the announcement, however, several sources considered that such a decision 
would be “inevitable.” Other comment on Korean developments indicates concern with their 


effect on the United Nations. 


Broadcasts from India, Egypt, and Indonesia continue to emphasize their neitrality. Belgeade 


broadcasts, avoiding comment, merely report events at Lake Success. 


WHAT OF THE UNITED NATIONS?” Although Soviet Satelliteteadios are all crisical of the 
alleged American attitude toward the U.N., the clandestine “Free Greece” radio is manifestly 
contemptuous. It declares that the Charter has become "a piece of paper used sy Trwean to 
get the rust off his bayonets.” Albanien end Polish broadcasts, insisting that Washington 
has struck a heavy blow at the Charter, recapitulate Soviet efforts to augment the authority 
of the United Nations. Warsaw reiterates the Soviet contention that the U.N. copolutions 
are not binding since "at the present moment the Security Council is not functioning.” The 
LONDON DAILY WORKER argues that the West “has reduced the once-respected Security Council of — 
the United Nations to a discredited American-controlled rump” by preventing the participation 
of the Soviet Union. A Stockholm broadcast, rejecting he idea of active Swedish participatica 
CLASSIFICATION : 


sare Xr TX 
fanny eae [Xr 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100190054-0; cr ad 


\ 


Approved For Release 1999/09/0 REQAFRORZ8-04864A000100700089-0 


ESRI i 


Pay ae 


in the Korean fighting, feavs Giere is 4 “serious” pose ibility that preasit dey slcpmente may 
"lead to the country's membership in the U.N. being tansfore*d into a sort of < facto 

membership of a widened Atlantic Pact.” But it alsc quotes ‘AFTONBLADET a+ :ndc rs ing ng the State: 
Department's argument that past pérformance shows th» Soviets do not always interpret : 
abstention to mean a veto in Security Council deliberations, and as “inding thet Soviet : 
efforts to “sabotage” the U.N. have failed, Other #:.stexrn broadcasts express tte belief that - 
the American decisiveness in Koree will lead to a strengthening of the United lations. 


‘WHAT OF THE “PEACE CAMPAIGN"?: Interest in ths effect of Korean developms]ts on the 
Soviet-Commnist "peace , campaign ie indicated in both Communist and Vestern mm cadcasts. 

The North Korean radio reports that the All-Korea National Committee of Peace } artisans hes 
appealed to the World Peace Committee in Paris "to take appropriate steps” in “ihe light cf 
American intervention. (This appeal adds a new charge to Pyongyang's list of nvidious 
stories about the United States; it emphasizes that, despite the fact that the President 
did not announce American air cover until 27 June, Aueriocan eircraft engaged ti “brutal 
bombings" of urban and rural areas in North Korea "from the very moment the Syigman Ruee 
traitor gang launched the invrsion.") Soviet-controlled German sources are alo reported to 
be calling for greater "activation" of the “peace campaign.” And Radio Moscow contimes to 
invoke Korean events as a fundamental reason for signing the Stockholm “Peace” Appeal; but 
its allusions in this context are still relatively temperate compared to the v tuperatvion 
evinced in comment from other Commnist medie. Western sources reflect cynicimm over the 
“peace campaign, “ 

_WHAT OF THE ATOM BOMB?: Agsin there ia only one monitored mention of the sem bomb in: 
material about the Korean situation. The French Cammnist HUMANITE declares tat the U.5., 
faced with the problem of supporting a South Korean army “surrounded by the hostility of 
the people, can find only one solution: to destroy not only the people but th: army. Hence 


the plan of using the A-bomb, a mass extermination weapon.” This alleged plan however, is 
not elaborated. 


NUMBER 5, 2 July 1950 

SUMMARY: The President's 30 June decision authorizing the use of American ground forces 
in Korea has been reported in monitored foreign broadcasts; but so fer there lve bee. 
surprisingly few comments. Nor have there been many comments about the progres of the 
Korean fighting. But several Conmmmist sources have tentatively injected into their 
propaganda the idea that the North Koreans will eventually be successful and tiat, in 
Moscow's words, "(imperialist) military adventures bring nothing but complete .‘ailure.” 
Ho Chi Minh's Vietnam radio has finally broadcast ite firet comments on the Eo-sen situation. | 
They mirror j without a single distortion, the established Communist version of «vents. 
Pyongyang hes finally taken explicit note of the President's decisions in a viecent astack 
against them by North Korean Foreign Minister Pak; but the text of his address ss nos yet 


been received in Washington. 


Radio Moscow continues to broadcast “evidence” of America's long-term and | «liberate 
preparations for aggression. The righteousness of the USSR's early withdrawal .f its 
occupation troops from Korea is contrasted with the allegeily long American de ay in shies 


respect; and the Soviet radio's other stereotyped charges about America's econ mic, political,: 


gen 
awd A id 
RESTRICTED < awe ee 
ar bs 
RESTRICTED tes Mind ee 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78- he AA000100100054-0 


nite y25X1A2g 
Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : cy UCI 
- RESTRICT :D 


~ 45 - 


aA oF 


# 


and military degradation of South Kores «+ added te “proofs" of U.8. preparat: ona ant. 
intentions. Both Moscow and Pyongyang repert world-vide pepular eppesition te Awsrice's 
“eriminal aggression"; the Seviet peeple are said te lead a1] the rest in the ;refundity ef i 
their indignatien. iléncente first allusien to the xiom bewt im the Kerean centext appeers ir | 
a breadcast reperting British M.P. Reberts' request fer a Parliamentary debate on the aubjest.: 
Reberts' attitude is likened te that ef the "American camnibels” and is presentsd as snether 


argument for intensifying the "peace campaign." 


Weatern-oriented radies yield speradic speculatiens on the nature of the next Seviet meve. : 
Radie Belgrade centinues te emphasize Yugoslav impartiality in reperting events. Seuth 
Kerean breadcasts are still disseminating reperts abeut the actual er imminent csecapture 
ef Seoul; they alse warn (as dees Pyengyang) ageinst rumers and enemy prepaganda, 


THE KOREAN "PEOPLE" WILL TRIUMPH: The enly Cemmunist generalizatien abeut she North 
Kerean military pregress appears in a breadcast frem He Chi Minh's Vietnam radio: "The 
military situation in Kerea during the last few days shews that success will be with the 
Kerean People's Demecratis Republics Government, a government which represents a1 the peeple 
ef Kerea.” Other Communist seurces, while aveiding sueh a generalization, are >2g¢inning 
te hazard eccasieonal expressiens ef confidence in the ultimate victery ef the Korean 
Communists, The Chinese Communist Peace Committees declares, fer exemple, thet just as 
Fermesa is certain te be liberated se "the Kerean peeple are certeia te triumph." A Seviet 
Heme Service breadcast claims that "the people ef Kerea whe have kaewn true fre>diem will he 
able te defend it." And Radie Warsaw ridicules the U.S. fer "seeking further d»featse” in 
Kerea,. 


THE ATOM BOMB: Radie Moscew's first reference te the atem bemb in the Kerein centaxt 
appears in @ breadcast abeut British "imitaters" of the "American cannibals.” Citing the 
President's earlier "beasting” abeut his persenal respensibility fer the use af the atomic 
bemb en Japan, the commentary netes the recent suggestien that Parliament debat:: the use 
ef the atemic bemb im Kerea and clainus that "Churchill's perty celleague, Reber's,... openly 
Galled fer the drepping ef am atemi¢ bemb on the peaceful sities ef Nerth Kerea " The 
commentator, hewever, dees net elaborate further ea this claim; instead, he use: it as an 
inducement te these whe eppese such “pleedthirsty denands" te "sign the Steckhe'm Apperl." 


AMERICA'S ECONOMIC MOTIVES: Seviet-Cemmnist explanations ef practieally a!l American 
pelicies and actions habitually include ellustens te the U.S. "ecenomic crisis” end te the 
Consequent readiness ef the American imperialists to engage in any immoral unde: taking thet 
might serve to delay or mitigate the crisis, And Seviet Satellite radies are aw arguing 
that Awsricen interventien in Keres is primarily metivated by aggressive-imperis list 
ambitiens which include net enly pelitical eepirations but the desire te avert the econemic 
Crisis hanging ever the ceuntry, American industrialists are said te yearn fer the profits 
te be gained frem this "aggressive edveature." 


WHAT W THE USSR DO NEXT?: Western speculatien abeut the neture ef the next Soviet 
move ranges frem the Lenden observation thet the USSR caa withdraw frem Kerea because she has 
“earefully" avoided direct and specific commitments, te a rumer, reported frem £ teckhelm by 
Reme radie, ef "an ingenious plan which... censiste in erdering Mae Tse-tung te sentritute 
te the Cemmnist ferces in Kerea with a Chinese army." In this cennectien seurces in Tekye 
and Fermesa are reperted te have meted movements ef Chinese Commnist forces in the direction 
ef the Yalu-River beundary between Menchuria and Kerea. Ankara adds te the spetulatie: with 
the repert ef a statement by Senater Harry Cain to the effect "that the Kerean war was 
Ppessibly a Seviet maneuver te distract atteatien from a strong Seviet attack en dsaters Burepe 
er the Middle East--which might come in the near future.” 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100054-0 


