Mert. want 25X1A2 
s Approved FiotSRel6as@N 999/08iadennGiateteeet Pte U100100055- 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY" REPORT NO 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS = CD NO. 


INFORMATION2.-3 July 1950 
SUBJECT FOREIGN RADIO COMMENTS RELATED TO THE 
SITUATION IN KOREA 
now cont awe DATE DIST. 7 duly 1950 
PUBLISHED Radio Broadcasts 


WHERE 


PUBLISHED NO. OF PAGES ~’ 
DATE 
PUBLISHED 2-3 duly 1950 

SUPPLEMENT TO 
LANGUAGE Several REPORT NO. 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMA ‘ION 


T CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
OF THE HIN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT BO 
U.S. C., SE AND 92, A5 MISSION OR THE REVELATION 
OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TO ERSON 1S PRO- 
HIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM | 


SOURCE BIB (This strictly factual repor$ is based solely on monitored for:ign radio 
browdoasts received in Washington up to 7 e.m., 3 July 1950. It 
reproduces the &th of a series of reports prepares in respons: to a 
special request.) 


INTRODUCTION: There has been a considerably greater mumber of monitored 3. viet-Ccmmmnist — 


comments during approximately the past 2) hours than at any time since the Nor ih Korean 
invaders launched their attacks, Most important, however, is the greater freq:ency and 
intensity of statements which appear to reflect an attitude of increasing threat and 
belligeresse -nd an increased expectation of general war. Whether or not these statements are . 
functions of definite Soviet-Commnist intentions in the operation field (as distinct from 
the field of propaganda), they do suggest a more direct effort to prepare the ommmen is 
world for warlike eventualities. On the other hand, they may be related prima-ily to the 
fearmongering purposes that are implicit in a war of nerves, Side by side wit1 such state- 
ments, Soviet-Commnis’ propaganda contimes to plug the "peace campaign"; but even here, 
the issue of American "aggression" against Korea is emphasized as something th» "peace 
partisans" mst fight. In effect, the “peace campaign" is now as much concerns with 
mobilizing opinion specifically against this “aggression"--"hands off Korea"--as it is with 
arousing antagonism toward America’s “eggressive, war-preparing policy” in genvral ani with 


securing signatures to the Stockholm "Peace" Appeal. 


PSYCHOLOGICAL MOBILIZATION IN THE COMMUNIST WORLD? FEARMONGERING: Evidences of 
propagandistic counter-threatsa and belligerence toward the American “aggressors” and of 
concern with the possibility of general war come from divexse sources in the C mmnist 

world, as listed below. 


The Possibility of War 


A Soviet-controlled Berlin commentator says that the answer to the questio: of whether 
or not war is “inevitable” depends on the "people." If it depended 6n Trusan, et<., 


CLASSIFICATION 


ferare__ pw [nse 
fanny elaine 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100055-9 


25X1A2g 


wWeEXD Kies ee 
F Approved For Release *990/091HEACARIRDPTS.049640005 ld 


RESTRICTED 
a Bow 


"the war would have aterted long ago." The only thing thet has prevented 1% to dete has 
been the “powerful growth of the peac:. movement.” But the commentator warns thet “nearly | 
all of us,,. have underrated the gravity of the tureat of war. This underestimation... 
ig undoubtedly due to an underestimate of the ageressive character of U.S. imperialism. 
The important thing now is to correct this fault as quickly and as radically as possible.": 


According to Radio Rome, Toglietti has written a UNITA article which, "basei on obscure 
promises,... asserts that the state of affairs implies thet the third world war has begun. - 
But he does not enlarge the theme. 


A Radio Sofia report of the Bulgarien ceremonies marking the anniversary of Dimitrov's 
death quotes the address by Bulgarien Communist leader Zhivkov, who implicitly posea the 
possibility of war in the following terms: "If... the Anglo-U.S. 1m 


a correct and sober estimate of the international situation (related to Korea) and ry to 
unleash @ new war.coe See section on “counter-threats,” below, for his enswer. 
A similar implication is contained in a Radio Budapest commentary which, in the context 

of attention to the Korean situetion, considers the question of what will heppen "if the 


eoples must shed their blood,... if the erjialists violate peace...." (3ee section on . 
senator Raroeee »” below, for his are 


Soviet commentator Kudriavtsev charges that the Americans exploited their esoupation of 
South Korea "for turning it... into a military bridgehead for attacks against northern 
Korea, into, a base for aggression against the USSR and China.” (It should be noted that 
Soviet propaganda has quite frequently charged that the Americans were preraring bordering 
"pridgeheads" against the USSR and its Satellites. But Kudrievtsev is the first Seviet 
commentator to have repeated this charge in discussions of the present Korean situation.) 


The Soviet-controlled Leipzig radio quetes the Communist leader Ulbricht as “demanding 
the intensification of the enlightenment campaign for peace in view of the 0.8. inter- 


vention in Kerea" and as "attacking the agents of oe monopoly capitelism who.., are 
trying to incite to war in the territory of the n Democratic Republic." (And in 
conection with Ulbricht's charge that U.8. imperialism ia preparing anothsr war,” he 
advises that “the SED should make every effort to prevent a new era of hostility between 
Germany and the People's Democracies.") 


Another Leipzig broadcast, charging that the "U.8. imperialists are employing the same 
tactics against the Korean people as they employed against the German civilian pepulation 
in the last war," declares that "they would not hesitate in the least to de the seme 
again toward the German civilians." 


A Prague radio attack against American “aggression in Kerea" cites the "Western use of the 
Colorado beetle" against Czechoslovakia as "an act of war and no longer coli war." 


Counter -Threaets 


TASS, reporting Soviet protest meetings and “demands that the American agerassore be curted * 
quotes a statement by a Soviet worker to the effect that "the camp of peace is strong 
eno so check the sgeressor, the initiator of # new world war.” And in Sie sane dispetch, 
TASS reports that in conjunction with their demands for the “cessation of tie armed inter- — 
vention of the Anglo-American imperialists in Kerean affeirs" workers in Mescow's motor- 


cycle factory resolved that they will strengthen still mere the might of th: Soviet State 
which marches in the van of the struggle fer peace.” A Soviet-contrelle sxrlin 
commentator “does not doubt for a moment that the power of resistance ef th» Korean people 
and ef all peace-lovi eople in the world by their side will succeed in warding off the 
threat to peace in East Asia.” (The strength of the "camp ef peace” has of course long 
been a favorite Soviet-Commnist propaganda theme, But it hes always invel red the concept 
of some kind of “struggle” against and conflict with the "imperialist camp.’ And the 
French Commmnist HUMANITE's recent direct contention thet the North Koreans are fighting 
for "peace" indicates that the slogen "the cemp of peece against the eggres::or" may elso 
be used by Moscow in the event of expectations of general war.) 


The above-mentioned Budapest commentator declares that "the peoples want pence," but 


RESTRICTED 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100055-9 


19 


- . Approved For Release 1999/09/0 NL@IAIRDP78-048644000108900055-9 


RESTRICTEG an 


that "if they mst shed their cei iy are bil ine bo dv so enly against the_im- 


perialista for the cause sf yoace an. itberty. ... If the imperialiets ylolate peaco.... 
they are bound to suffer defeat anid to perish." 


Bulgarian Communist leader Zhivkoy voices Bulgaria's solidserity with she “Xorean people” | 
and declares that the pecples in defense of peecs will make the "oriminal »vleme ef the 
imperialists collapse." But if the Anglo-Amer!:.a teperialists do not correctly 


simple people led by the USSR and the Seviet ermy will give such a decisive aad 
dest will be, as Malenkov warned, ‘e grave not 
but for all werld capitalion.'™ (The Soviet radie 


hae frequently used the indicated quotetien frem Malenkev's speech on the sccasien ef 

the mest recent anniversary of the Octeber Revelution, But this is the first time that — 
a monitered Cemmnist seurce has used it in the context of attention te the international 
situatioa resulting from events in Kerea, Alse acteworthy is that by explicitly 
referring to "milliens of simple people led by the USSR and the Seviet army," it gees 
beyend Malenkev, who did net make such an explicit identification. 


Fellewing his reference to the "grave ef capitalism," Zhivkev attacks the ‘wiserable 
lackeys ef U.S, imperialism in the Balkens"~-namely, the Tite clique , the creek monarche- 
fascists, and particularly the "Turkish reactionary leaders" whe "recently made an 
attempt to infiltrate a greup ef Turkish spies and subversive agents inte jIuigerien 
territory.” 


A Pelish broadcast, comparing the USSR's "brotherly assistance to Peland” ith "the 
iavasion by U.S. imperialism of the Korean Republic »" concludes: "Twe facts! Twe 
ideelegies; And twe werlds! Nebedy can have any deubt which ef these ide slogies will be° 
Ghesen by the people and which of the two worlds will be victorious. 


MORE ICAL SOVIET-COMMUNIST PROPAGANDA LINES: It shenld be peinted out shat the above- 
cited statements are not typical ef the bulk ef Seviet-Commmist prepaganda, ecause of 
their combined appearance almost evernight, however, it-.was felt that they jus;ified fairly 
detailed presentation here, More common te a1] Cemmmist sources is tke reite-ated theme 
that the U.S, “aggression” fellewed a leng and deliberate series of preparatiew therefor. 
There are increasingly frequent references te the North Kerean military succes:es despite 
Auerican efferts, and to the ultimate victery ef the Nerth Kerean Communists, Practically 
all Communist sources play up the allegedly worldwide protest against the Amer:cen "aggression." 
Moscow especially attempts to put acress the idea that the masses of the world are uniting 
behind the slogan, "hands off Keree." This slogan is featured repeatedly in tiie vast volune 
ef propaganda around the curremt USSR drive fer signatures te tke Stockholm “Poace” Appeal 
and TASS bulletins report that it is being taken up by werkers throughout the ‘vorld. 
Comminist sources alse publicize the alleged atrocities being committed by Ame-ican aircraft 
in their “deliberate” bombings ef innocent Kerean civilians >» Women, children, md eldsters. 
Aad there are continued references to the illegality ef the U.N. Security Coun:il's resolution. 


WESTERN-ORIENTED COMMENT: Westerm-oriented sources continue to express a>proval of the 
President's decisions. Britain's SUNDAY DISPATCH, for example » carried a Vana :ttart- 
authored article entitled, "Thank God fer Truman." There i# still not a great deal ef comment 
' on the pregress of the fighting. The French news agency, AFP, reports that tl: French public 
"is absolutely calm ever events in Korea” and has adjusted itself to the idea :f a “long. 
drawn-out eperation." The Berne radie quotes a Swiss paper to the effect that Keres “ia s 
clear example ef how even the most powerful assistance offered to a small coun ry which is 
attacked by an unscrupulous aggressor usually comes rather late, often too lati:"; the moral 
‘is that Switzerland should devote attention to its ova national defense, Britiin's THE 
PEOPLE considers that the shertege of American end other U.N, combat troops in Koree repregenti 
the most critical problem. Speculations about future Seviet policy and action! centinue to 
appear. They range from concera about the possible role that may be as#eigned ‘.o the Chinese 
Communists, through the belief that "it may suit Russia best to work for a lon’-drewa-out 
struggle... which can be used as a theme for propaganda," to the fear that if there is a 
leng-érawn-out struggle "Russian uadereover aid could pin down ever-increasing numbere of 
American and other Western forces in the Keres operstions, thus making it poss: ble for Russia : 
end Red China te strike elsewhere against the depleted Western forces.” There are also 
continued allusiens to the need for American ocoupation ferces to remain im cotntries aow 
occupied se that the Kerean situation will not be repeated elsewhere. 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100055-9 


