, BA. 


ne os Tn ae Or -0630 
ae Approved FoKRE IASON 999/09/68 RUG A204 - 500 100100056- 8 
. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT NO. 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 25X1A2g 
COUNTRY Fereign DATE OF 


INFORMATION 2~ S#2y 1950 
SUBJECT FOREIGN RADIO COMMENTS RELATED TO 
THE KOREAN SITUATION, No. 2 he 
HOW . DATE DIST.  / daly 1950 
PUBLISHEDRadie Broadcasts 


WHERE 5 
PUBLISHED NO. OF PAGES 


DATE 


PUBLISHED3 = 4 July 1950 
SUPPLEMENT TO 00-F-111 thru 
LANGUAGE Several REPORT NO. 00-F-115 


5 ” NS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
or THE UNITED §$ EANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT 60 


U.S. C., 31 AND 32, A8 AMENDED. MOR THE REVELATION THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMA TION 


OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TO AN WNAU 
HIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM 1s PROHIBIT! o. 


: SOURCE FBID (This strictly factual report is based solely en monitored foreiga redio 

broadcasts received in Washington up to 7 a.m., 4 July 1950. It reproduces 

the ninth of a series of reports prepsred in nonpene® te a special request. ) 

INTRODUCTION: Relatively strong talk releted to the situation in Keres cmtimes to 

emanete from Seviet-Cemmunist sources, Sene of it appears in Radie Meoscew's reports of the 
gigentic USSR “pretest mevement” against the American "aggression"; some of it in Radio ; 
Peking's reperts ef the only less gigantic Chinese Commniat campaign te mobilize Chinese % 
epinien against the "aggressors" and in suppert of Mae's determination te "libsrate" Fermosa | 
despite the American action; and seme of it in sporadic Satellite material. G-enyke's state 
ment, distributed initially by TASS, makes few essentially new contributions t> the already- 
established Seviet-Communist prepaganda line, His declaration that the U.S. Goverament is 
"gradually pushing the U.S. step by step inte an epen war,” hewever, appears t> add overt 


 efficial sanction te recent instances of Seviet-Commaist fearmengering about she pessibility 


ef another war. 


Te judge by monitored 

bimuing et full ferce in meetings of 
workers ena citizens teccachert the leagth and breadth ef the Seviet Union (as well as 
threughout the: "pregressive" werld), Breaécast reperts ef these mootings appl7z te the 
Americans such words and phrases as "bleedthirsty," "barbariens," and "curse tie warmongers." 
But available monitered breadcasts have not yet referred te use of the phrase “beasts ef 
prey,” which was ene ef their favorite expressions during the Seviets' Werld War II hate- 
campaign against the Nazis. (An American radie commentater, however, recently reperted the 
appearance of this phrase, applied te the Americans, in PRAVDA,) The strengess statement 
attributed te an individuel Seviet citizen at the pretest meetings ecours in a regional 
breadeast by radie Beku: — 


"The Seviet Unien will never permit the bleedthirsty Western warmongers te destrey 
cities and slaughter citizens fer their interests." 


ETERMINAT EXPEL THE U,S, IMPERIALISTS”: Aecerding te 
; Tnese ‘preadcasts, . ail the people im China, wrathfully indignant against the 
huey ean "aggressers," are rising im universal suppert ef Mae's decision to ceatinue pre- 
peretions fer the liberation ef Formosa. Much is made ef the strength of the "hinese people, 
which alene, as well as in combination with other Asian peeples ; “is abselutels adequate te 
CLASICATION: 5 ; 


repel 1X es : a ee _ ee | 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100056-8 


"© Approved For Release 1999/09 F SF NgDP7,8-04864A0001 00 2640808 


f 


=~ D «= 


-‘suash the American imperielistes' wilid des a» of aggression,” It is predicted that the 
"designs contained in the preposterous American do: i:vation (ebout Fermosa)... are bound 
to become merely pitiable delusions." Amsrican strength is likened to the powtrful appear - 
ance of a “paper tiger" which onee expesed te the rain will disintegrate; and 'the mad ~ 
end vielent act of the Americans” is called "the swan song of imperialism." ‘The Chinese 
people “are not afraid of (Truman's) umreasonable and provecative act.” They ‘cannot be 
pushed around,” They "call om tae people ef the various eppressed netions in {he Far East 
to rise as one... to check the new American aggression in the East." They "wii devete 
themselves with one mind to struggling to the end for liberation of Fermesa." They “are 
confident that the People's Liberation Army will liberate a11 the territories «f Chins.” 
There is, hewever, neo explicit attention te the question ef hew er when the "1: beratioa" 
ef Formosa will be launched, The word "scen," used frequently before the Pres: dent's 
decision, has net reappeared. Ner have there been any specific allusions te p:ssible 
Chinese Cemunist material suppert of the Nerth Kereans. 


COMMUN NAM'S "COMING GENERAL CO ~OFFENSIVE": He Chi Mink's Vietnam radie hes 
issued another breadcast en the Korean situation. Generally repeating the esti: blished 
Communist line, it is of interest primarily because it includes the first reference to the 
“seming general Vietnam ceunter-offensive” in the context ef attention to Keres. This 
seunter-effensive has been predicted fer many menths by the Vietnam radio. Bai new it is 
linked to the events in Kerea which have "confirmed once more that the ferees er the 
preservation of werld peace and democracy have ample strength te step the war :nteations 
ef the reactionary Americans.... The battlefield ef Vietnam and Indochina, tejether with 
the world demecratic blec led by the Seviet Union, will destrey the American resetienaries 
in the coming general ceunter-effensive which will wipe out the reactionary ce! onialists 
and their war machine.” This wausuelly clese association ef the Seviet-led "dimocratic 
werla" with the predicted general counter-effensive is alse ef interest. 


OTEER STRONG COMMUNIST STATEMENTS: Finland's VAPAA SANA complains that althoujh Finnieh 
pelitical circles and the press "knew full well... what the Seviet attitude is te (recent 
events)... (and) what Finland's positien is if a third world wer starts," this hae net — 
prevented the bourgeois and Seciel Demecratic press from siding with the Americans; it warns 
ageinst prepaganda that will agein mislead the nation into wars against the Soviet Union. 

(The breadcast version of the article dees not make explicit what Finland's actual pesiticn . 
will ex akould be in the event.of.war; but it implies that Finland should side, yith the USSR.) 
The Soviet journalist, Orlev, writing im Berlin's Seviet Aray ergen, TAEGLICHE RUNDSCHAU, 
asseciates “events in distant Korea" with the U.S, war instigaters' plan to drag a vassalized ; 
Germany inte war as part ef the "military Western Eurepean Union"; he warns that “anether 

war in Europe in accerdence with the will ef the U.S, war instigators would be s truly 
devastating disaster fer Germany.” A Bulgarian transmission claims that the isperialists 
“want te keep the Korean base fer their aggressive plans against Free China ané the USSR.” 

And another says that as a result ef the Kereen events "tho twe camps in the werld are teday 
marked even more clearly.” (The same breadcast compares Truman, whe "threatent to use the 
atem bemb again," with the "great Stalin (whe) expounds prefeund ideas in an article ebeut 
Marxist philelegy.") = ae = a 


AMERICA'S PERVERSION OF THE U.N.: Altheugh Seviet-Cemmmnist seurces cendemm Anerica's 
alleged misuse ef the U.N., they do mnt condemn the U.N. as.sush. One Seviet coumentster 
Cells attention te the "new horrible intentien ef the U.S. aggressers” te mark U.S. aireraft 
in Korea with the U.N. insignia. 


see N-ORTENTED COMMENT: Comments frem Western seurces de act cencentrate en any one theme 
er idea, ere is praise ef the U.N., derision ef the German Communist demand “sr with- 
draval ef eecupstion treeps, cencern about demestic defenses against a pessible repetition 


of the Kerean situation in the country ceneorned, and speculation about the rele ef the 
Chinese Communists relative te the Kerean situation, 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100056-8 


