EE Se 


sites See _ ee 5X1 
Approved BoxsReleaben 999/09/0 danGhdcRDP ERASE TOO TD 29 


GENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS 


COUNTRY Foreign 


SUBJECT FoReIGN RADIO COMMENTS RELATED TO 
a THE SITUATION IN KOREA, No.3 


PUBLISHED Radio Broadcasta 


WHERE 
PUBLISHED 


DATE 
PUBLISHED 4-5 July 1950 


LANGUAGE Several 


THIS DUC 5 NS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 


REPORT NO. 


CD NO. 


DATE OF 
INFORMATIONg ,-5 July 1950 


DATE DIST. 7 duly 1950 


NO. OF PAGES 3 


SUPPLEMENT TO oo-F-111 thru - 
REPORT NO. 00-F-117 


oF are, STAND 32, AS AMENDS a MMR GE REVELATION THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TO AN UNAUTHOR D 
HIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM IS PROHIBITED. 


FBID (This strictly factual report. is based solely on monitored Pforeigr radio 


x, SOURCE broadcasts received in Washington up to 7 a.m,. 5 July 1950, It reproduces the 
: tenth of a series of reports prepared in response to a special request. ) 


SUMMARY: During the past day, the most noteworthy development in Radio Moscow's 


propaganda relative to the Korean situation is represented by a Soviet Home Service broad-: 


cast of a KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA editorial, "Our Forces Are Incalculable," ‘his editorial 


is noteworthy because it is the first extended Soviet statement to juxtapore charges of 


American “aggression” against Korea with the idea of a Soviet-involved war. The possi- 


bility of the latter is suggested only obliquely and by implication, But ‘he implication © 


appears to be clear: if again forced to fight as “saviors of peace, freedim, and 


democracy," the "incalculable forces” of the Soviet regime, which during the Fatherland 


War demonstrated its superiority to the capitalist order, will again crush the enemy. 


Otherwise, available broadcasts from Soviet-Commnist sources add lit’le that is new - 


to the propaganda pattern previously noted in this series of reports. The “hands -off- 


Korea" and "curb-the-aggressor" campaign continues, as does the Communist (hinese cappaign 


for mobilizing Chinese "determination to ensure the liberation of Formosa. ' Efforts are 


still made to prove that the Korean fighting broke out as a result of an American -directed 


South Korean invasion of the north. The "admissions" of a captured South ‘orean officer 


are now used in this connection; and his reported teatimony also implies tiat the U.N. 


Korean Commission had a hand in preparation of the "invasion," There has is yet been no 


apparent Soviet-Communist follow-up to Gromyko’sa recent statement; it has, however, been 


broadcast on practically all of Moscow's language beams, 


CLASSIFICATION 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100057-7 


25X1A2g 


. Approved For Release Laat e CIA- moto HES ——_ 
TRICTAD 


_ Grenyke's statement hee been ios eb'sc% of seme eatern-eriented cement. 4A BBC 
coumentary peints out @ number of the stecvement's o.-onetetentciss and vuluerab ities; and 
a French press correspondent in Moscow reports that "foreign. ebservers” there nterpret it 
as confirmation ef the impression that "the USSR's desire fer peace is a guera::tee that 
everything will be dene to avoid generalization ef the conflict.” Other Weste: n-coriented 


cemments related te the Korean situation are diverse. 


‘THE USSR'S "INCALCULABLE FORCES" AND THE "INC OF A NEW CONFLICT": The abeve- 
mentiened OMO] erial centains a greater undercurrent of wa:-like belliger- | 
ence (as distinct from purely prepsgandistic belligerence) than has eppesred 1: any 
comparable pestwar Seviet statement related te the current international situa:ier. It 
begins Py, reference to the Seviet peeple's "endeaver te defend, at any cost, tie cause of 
peace.” This is fellewed by praise ef the Steckhelm-Appeal eignature Sanpalgn and ef the 
“vyeices ef milliens (which) will net be stifled... by the explesiens ef bembs ‘hich the U.S. 
Superferts are dropping (en Pyengyang innocents) er the rear ef diesels ef U.S , British, 
end Australian warships hurrying te the Chinese island ef Fermesa and te the s sores er 
Vietnam, The mere strident the cries ef Ferrestal-like generals and diplemets. the mere 
impudeat the aggresser, alrea dipping his hands in the bleed of the peace-le-ing Kerean 
peeple, the firmer and mere decisive is the call issueing frem millions ef hea-ts te ‘curb 
the warmengers.'” Then comes the familiar claim that "fer the first tine in histery the 
werld arena has been entered by an ergenized international front of fighters for peace"-- 
headed by ‘the "great and invincible Seviet Union,” supperted by millions threu sheut the werld, 
facluding the “great and free Chinese people," and strengthened by the creatie: ef the 
German Demecratic Republic. There is then a reversion ef attention te the Sev et peeple whe, 
te a “man, suppert the "peace-leving pelicy" ef their government, whe “are deme istrating ence 
mere... their unshakeable readiness te maintain and ,iefend peace" by signing tie Steckhelm 
Appeal, and to whese heart the "unbridled aggresser” is advised te listen. Isusdiately 
thereafter, these statements are linked to the centext ef actual war, as the fllewing 
extensive quetatiens indicate: 


"Let the unbridled aggressers listen to the heart ef the Seviet peeple.  t is the 
veice of a peeple whe has preved mere than ence its will and determinetien te defend 
the great cause ef peace. When the might ef fascist barbarity fell uper “urepe, the 


Seviet peeple came ferward as the saviers ef peace,* freedem, and demecra:y. 


"The reselve ef the Seviet peeple te wage the Fatherland War... was exprei-sed by 
Staelin... mine years age when he said: ‘The aim ef this pepuler war... is net enly 


the liquidation ef the menace hanging «ver eur ceuntry, but alse te help #11 peeples 
rman faacieon.'** .,.the Seviet pevple carried 
eut with hener this sacred mission. The Seviet public and state erder preved that the 


are superier te the capitalist erder. ...the Seviet peeple crushed their enentes and 
epean culture and civilizatien frem ane fascist ga asters. 


_The impudent fee will seen have te cenvinie himself ef 


Fences are incalculable, 


.'** Thus speke eur erat and teacher 
nine years age, and Stelin's prephesy has. ceme true. 
"Having reuted the fascist aggressers, the Seviet people shewed that ne frrce exists in 
the werld which cam break it. ... Tedey, when affixing their signatures (te the 
Steckhelm Appeal), every Seviet citizen repeata the werda ef beleved Stal:n: ‘Our ferces 
are incalculable.' They returm te their werk... te implement their signature by 

ther successes fer the geed ef the beleved ceuntry. The cembine eperaier is reaping 
the harvest; the steel smelter is preducing a new grade of steel; the sci:mntist is 
penetrating the mysteries ef cell structure, We will net be intimidated ly _ prevecative 
acts. We are ca the intrigues ef the enemies ef peace. 


* This appears te be Radie Mescew's first reference te the Seviet rele in Wer'd Wer Il in 
terms ef defending "peace," er in the centext ef the current “peace campaign.” 

** This appeers te be the first time during at least the last feur years that these state- 
ments by Stelin have been queted by Radie Moscew in any centext, te say nething of # current 


RESTRICTED 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100057-7 


Approved For Release 1999/09/08 8 FARDPY8-04864A000400400057-7 


—- 


a5 


Thus, by a precess of staterent juxtepesition, the current situatien--marked b; the 
initiation of American “aggression” in the Far East and by Seviet “determinativn te defend 
the cause of peace"--4s8 implicitly identified with the previeus situatiem when the Seviet 
Unien was faced with the “menace of the fascist aggressors hanging ever the centry™ and 


when it also “came ferward as the savior of peace,..." The listener is left t» draw his 
ewn cenclusiens, 


Radies Khebsrevsk and Visdivestek breadcast a cemmentary--net, hewever, 11 the Keresn 
centext--which alse quetes frem Stalin's "histeric address” nine years age. I; cites Stelin'é 
attack en the cencept ef an “invincible army” and his statement "that the insaic pleas... 
nursed by aggressers are deemed to failure” es constituting "a serieus warning te all 
imperialiat pretenders te world deminatien, The ruling circles of the U.S., a% present 
gripped by the idea ef werld deminatien, sheuld pender the fate ef Hitler and is ilk," 


RESTRICTED 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100057-7 


