25X1A2q 


001 


4 Approved Fo#ReleaseN 999/09/@ ae 
~ 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC REPORT NO 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


COUNTRY Foreign. DATE OF 
INFORMATION 5-€ July 1950 
SUBJECT FOREIGN RADIO COMORTS RELATED TO 
THE SITUATION IN KORSA, No, 4 
HOW . DATE DIST. 7 July 1950 
PUBLISHERRadic Broadcasts 


WHERE | od 
PUBLISHED NO. OF PAGES 2 


DATE 


PUBLISHED 5-6 July 1950 
| SUPPLEMENT TO 00-F=111 thru : 


LANGUAGE Several REPORT NO. 90-F-118 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION | 


SOURCE FBID (This strictly factual report is based solely on monitored foreigr. radio broad- 
casts received in Washington up to 7 a.m., 6 July, It reproduces the eleventh . 
of a series of reports preyared in response to 8s special request, } ; 
INTRODUCTION: KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA ‘s editorial on “our incalculable forcee” has not yet 
been followed up by any further comparable identifications of the current inter: ational Bituae i 
tion with that prevailing ae the time of Hitler's attack on the USSR, Soviet-Cc mmunist 
"warnings " to the U.S. “aggressora" continue, however; and attacks on the lattei's alleged inte? - 
national immorality make use of various emotionally charged epithets, including "beasts of 
prey," a phrase reminiscent of the Soviets’ wartime hate-campaign against the Germans, All 
Soviet commentaries continue to reiterate the contention that the Americans have “gone over 
from preparing aggression to open acts of aggression, " Some fearmongering cont: rues, as does : 
_.the worldwide Soviet-Communist "protest" campaign condemning American “aggression” against 
.. Korea, Although sympathy for the Korean "people" is always expressed, and “gupport" of their 
cause urged, there have been as yet no explicit appeals for more than moral sup}ort. ‘The "“pro- 
test" campaign is regularly associated with the drive for signatures to the Storkholm "Peace" 
Appeal, Gromykota statement. has not been followed by extensive repercussions f)-om either 
Soviet-Comminist or Western-oriented sources. The former praise and paraphrase ‘t; tho latter » 
attack it. There is still no acknowledgement or indication in Soviet-Communist broadcnaste shee 
a great majority of U.N, members hevo backed the Security Council's ropolutions: but Moscow 
reports that Ambassador Caffery has brought pressure to bear om the Egyptians t»> support the 
American “aggression,” Practtoally #11 mont tored Arad sources mainte Tn agreeme.c with ggyypt's: 
pogition of neutraiity. | 
EPITHETS: soviet-Commnist expressions currentiy useu to characterize the Amer can -“pggreasore ’ 
Include the following: a9 "rat running through the streets cf Asta," "beaste of »rey.” “beasts 
of Wall Street," "beast-like image of imperialism,” "butchers," and “arrogant U.S, bamdite,” 


Several of these occur in @ Soviet-broadcast LITFRARY GAZETTE od itorial “expoai .7" ‘he reasons — 
for Genator Taft's "demand that Truman be censured and Acheson dismisaed," Taf. is said to 


CLASSIFICATION TU 1 


farare__ [fra [nore [| ___bistraut 


CL Ps <GzT 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100058-6 


oe .. | 25X1A2g 
ad Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A0001 _- 


4 ~~ RESTRIC?HD RESTR ICTE 


~-Q-. 


have "felt personally offended by Truman becuse in the competition to unleash a ‘ar Truman 

this time surpassed him," But thia does not prevent tho Moscow publication from osxploiting some 
of Taft's criticisms vhich "unmsked the President as an aggressor before the who te world,... as. 
a usurper of the rights of Congress, and as an eneny of the American Constitution “ 


FEARMONGERING: In the context of attention to the Korean situation, the first fo-iet-Conmuniat 
allusion to the possibility of an “imperialist” attack on the USSR's European Satellites occurs 
ina Radio Wersaw commentary. It is directed against the Amorican imperialiete' reek “varlets"™ 
who support Washington's “ageressi on” against Korea and who themselves are provok ‘ng incidents 
along their northern borders, Says Warsay: 


"Tn collaboration with the traitors of Selgrade, the Athens monarcho-fascists are ready to 
attack the People's Democracies of Albania and Bulgaria immediately on recei.+ of orders 

from the warmongers of Washington and London, Such an attack would naturally .be.ths pre- 
lude to a war by the imperialist camp against the Soviet Union and the Peopls's Democracies, * 


The Soviet-controlled Berlin radio continues its. fearmongering with a commentary varning against 
taking consolation from the fact that Korsa 1a thousands of miles away, “The U.S, B-29's would 
be available for the bombing of German cities just a8 quickly as they were able to fly to North 
Korea," And the commentator concludes that although the U.S, has so far confined itself to 
dropping Colorado beetles over Eastern Germany, there can be no doubt of its readiness to drop 
bombs; the Korean example shows that “the flaming torch of war respecta no degrees of latitude 
or zonal boundaries,” 


GROMYKO'S STATEMENT: Although most monitored Soviet-Communist praises and paraphranes of 
Gromyko'’s statement make reference to his claim of Soviet non-intervention, it ie streseed in only 
three commentaries, one from Radio Warsaw end two from Soviet-controlled Berlin, The former 
contrasts the ostensible Soviet policy with the “brazen intervention of the Ameri cans” in Korea, 
and declares that the peoples living under the capitalist system “are being pushed into the 
abyss of war by the American imperialists and their Huropean satellites," The latter claim 

that the only reason the world is still at peace is beceuse of the USSR's “calm attekpde” and 
its "unambiguous policy of non-intervention"; by not falling for the U.S. provocation, the JSSR | 
"has averted the immediate danger of war,” Criticism of the Security Council cortinues to con~ = 
centrate not on the U.N, as such, but on America's perversion of it into a “tool utilized by 

the imperialist circles... to unleash war.” Redio Paris broadcasts the French G¢cvernment's 
critical analysis of Gromyko's misstatements of fact. And the Nationelist Chinese radio at 
Taipei reporta British speculation as to the whereabouts of Vishinsky; “unless he has been de- 
posed, he must be on some special task elsewhere," According to one oninion, he “is now in 
Peking carrying on negotiationa between the Kremlin and. Mao," (A previous specujation, 
attributed to Baltic emigre sources, had him in Korea supervising Sovietization cf the “liber- 
ated” areas, ) i 


leadership in fighting aggression in Asia." fhe following slogans are issued to mark the day: 
"Ynite, people of Asia! Stop American imperialist aggression! Oppose the lackej}s of the 
American aggressors! The liberation movement in Asia is the protector of world }«ace! Long 

live the spirit of the war against Japanese aggression.” The above-mentioned rejerence to 
American imperialism as a "rat running through the streets of Agia” also comes fo.com Peking, whici: 
eries that as with a rat “the Asian people are saying 'kill it.' .,,the time is drawing near far 
it to enter the grave,“ 


BELGRADE COMMENT: Monitored Yugoslav pources continue to present both sides of ihe situation; 
but a recent commentary appears to favor the view of "U.N, circles," 


RESTRICTED 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100058-6 


