— FNTELLOFAX 2 
an = 25X1A2g 
_ Approved Fa@LRssi#as610899/09/0 (REKDrT. 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


INFORMATION FROM 


FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


COUNTRY FOREIGN DATE OF 
INFORMATION * - 10 duly 1950 
SUBJECT FOREIGN RADIO COMMENTS RELATED 
TO THE SITUATION IN KOREA No. 6 
HOW eee es DATE DIST. {}* Juty 1950 
PUBLISHED Radio Broadcasts 


WHERE 
PUBLISHED NO. OF PAGES 3 

DATE 

UBLISHED 7 = 10 July 1950 

; i : SUPPLEMENT °O 00-F-11) 
LANGUAGE Several REPORT NO, tzu 00-*-120 


NTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE manoMAL DerEnse 
H HE MEANING OF ESPIONAG 
ri . AG 31 AND 32,A8 AWE : WOR THE REVELATION THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFOR MATION 
OF ITS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER TO AN U LA eee PRO- 


HIBITED BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS 


SOURCE FBID (This strictly factual report is based solely on monitored for -ign radio 
broadcasts received in Weshington up to 7 a.m., 10 July 1950. It reorce-~ 
duces the thirteenth of a series of reports prepared in respowe to 2 
special request.) 


INTRODUCTION: There have been several weekend developments in Soviet-Commnist 
propaganda related to the Korean situation, The following are emong the most noteworthy: 
(1) the first appearance of an American prisoner of war on the North Korean radic; (2 
exploitation of the unchecked North Korean advance primarily in terms of en exclusively 
American defeat; (3) increasingly overt references to the “peace” forces in a militeriatic 
context; and (4) the beginning of a campaign for “active support” of the Forean “people,” 
Weatern-oriented sources continue to speculate on possible future Soviet noves; they | 
also show concern over the extent of the American military commitment that will be required 
to stop and turn pack the Korean Communiste. 


USA CAPTAIN AMBROSE NUGENT READS COMMUNIST-PREPARED STATEMENT (UNDER FRESSUEET): The 
North Koreans appear to have been almost as completely briefed and prepare in psychologi¢al 
warfere as in militery equipment, tactics, and strategy. They have alreaty broaccast 
turncoat statements by former South Korean officials, both civilien and mtlitary. And 
yeaterday, 9 July, a captured American Army captain, ostensibly on his ow volition and 
ostensibly expressing his own opinions, made a 900-word statement over Rac fo Seovl. Part 
of ites gist is that the American troops did not mow why they were "compe? led to fight,” 
but that after a few days in the prisoners' camp they "ceme to realize thr ardens aepirat: on 
and wishes of the Korean people to achieve unification of their Fatherlan: ," and that 
now they sympathize with these aspirations. The statement asks: "Why and ‘or whem are 
we separated by such an immense distance from our own native country wher: our dear Yemil:'es 
live?" And the enswer is the realization "that we were sent here for the benefit of the 
monopolistic uerchants, and we saw some of our friends die already in the war." This is 
followed by appeals to “dear friends in Japan"=-"do oppose the war, do reject being sent 
to Korea"--and to “dear friends in Korea"--"come over to the people's arm: or turn your 
guns back to your capitalist monopolists...." The statement was patently not written by 
an American, It reads exactly like an English trenslation of a more-or-l:ss typical. 

North Korean propagands piece. Further, the speaker's voice faltered and quaver:d #% 
several points in the broadcest,. which was read slowly, phrase by phrase, in a tired, 
halting, toneless voice, Hesitation was particularly noticeable in such ‘vords a5 
“imperialist” and “veactionionary.” The speaker was identified as "Captai:, 24th Division 
Artillery, 52nd Battalion.” .. sence 


* CLASSIFICATION eer THAT ER 
clade. 


___DISTRIBUTION te ee 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100060-3 


ZOA1AZg 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 REStAHRIDP 78-04864A0001 


"RESTRICTED 


"THE DISAPPEARING MYTH OF AMERICAN OMNIPOTENCE”": Soviet-Communist racios are begin- 
ning to talk about a loss of U.S. militery prestige as a result of the Nor h Korean pro- 
gress down the penisula. In a Soviet Home Service broadcast Colonel Tolch-nov, Radio 
Moscow's first military analyst of the Korean fighting, makes a particular point of the 
fact that, instead of expelling the defending enemy, the North Koreans "ap: ly widely 
successful and complex operations, such as the encirclement and liquidatio;: of eneny 
fractions, taking thousands of prisoners." This is said to "present in a nost un?avorable 
light those U.S. militery advisers who trained the South Korean troops. ... Inssead of 
triumphant victory reports, grim messages... began to reach Washington." ‘‘olchenov, how- 
ever, does not attempt to generalize the South Korean retreats into a defent of the U.S. 
Armed Forces, This is left to other Commnist radios which speak about th “crushed U.S. 
ground forces" (Pyongyang), "the defeat after defeat of the U.S. intervent onist troops” 
(Budapest), “the latest defeat of U.S. forces” (Warsaw), “another disgrace for th+ Stars 
and Stripes already covered with shame in China” (Berlin), and “the poor sowing and 
state of confusion among the American forces" (Peking). Although they al: imply thet 
this "poor showing" reflects the weakness of “imperialism,” few of them.go as far as 
Radio Peking's claim that "it fully shows that American imperialism is bar aric but week; 
infamous, but not to be feared." Instead, they pointedly suggest that this “poor showing" 
should be food for thought in the Atlantic Pact countries, where heightene: fear, 
hesitation, consternation, and diminishing faith in the efficiency and kno'ledge of the 
U.S. military are said to reign. It is also pointedly but indirectly sugg:-ated that the 
U.S. may be “compelled to concentrate its armament effort in Asia, (which) will autometic- 
ally cut the delivery of arms to its European vassals." 


U.S, MILITARY WEAKNESS AND SOVIET-COMMUNIST STRENGTH: In all the tal!: about American 
military weakness, as reflected in Korea, there is no direct reference to “che strength 
of the Soviet-Commnist military forces. But one Warsaw. commentator claim: that the 
resulting European "confusion and uneasiness has become more aggravated" f: Llowing the 
"resolute Soviet note making the U.S. responsible for any damages which mint be suffered © 
by Soviet ships" as a result of the blockade, Another follows a reference to the 
“exploded myth of American omnipotence" with the claim that the American “uggression" has 
heightened anti-war feeling and that "the simple people throughout the word want peace 
and are prepared to fight for it.” A Budapest commentary about the "repea ed U.S. defeats” 
and about the need for Hungarian vigilance “in defense of peace" concludes by calling : 
for strengthening the "people's army." And a Berlin broaiicast suggests th:t the Ameriaan’ 
“defeat in Korea" will strengthen the European nations in their determination for “pesace”-. 
in which connection the recent treaties between the German Democratic Republic and _ 
Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Hungary are held to be of "outstanding signifi ance,” 


"TO STAND FOR PEACE MEANS TO FIGHT": In George Orwell's book NINETEE EIGHTY-FCUR, 
“War Is Peace” is one of the major slogans used to reconcile the population to a state of 
war. In a sense, with the terminal words of the slogan transposed, this hus also been. 
true of Soviet-Communist propagands. But this has never been so clearly rvvealed as in 
# number of Soviet-Commnist broadcasts over the weekend, particularly in « broadcast 
PRAVDA article by L. Sobolev. Dedicated to the “peace movement," two of is references 
unmistakably identify the "forces of peace” as those who will bear arms agrinst the 
“aggressors” in the event of war. Sobelev lists the attributes of the men who signs the 
Stockholm “Peace" Appeal, and the finel characteristic attributed by Sobolev to mich a man 
is phrased as follows: 


"And if they succeed in unleashing another war and I am forced to cariy arms, I 
shall use them against those who wanted the war." (This is apparentl: the first 
time that the "peace forces" have been explicitly associated with the idea or 
bearing arus. ) 


And speaking at the end of his article of the "innumerable swallows" represented by the 
signatories of the Stockholm Appeal, he concludes: 


"Thirdly and mainly, this immense flock are not only swallows but millions of brave 
and courageous eagles, the force of which is well remembered by the irstigators of 
the second world war, These eagles will extinguish the fire of war. ... ‘The 

infamy which prevails at present in our planet mst be stopped and it will be stopped. 
We will do it. We millions of people, We mankind," 


Verbal associations of "peace" with possible war also appear in some of the Satellite 
broadcasta, Warning that the “atteck on Korea” has increased the Hungaria:s’ "duties in 
defense of peace" and that "Tito is lying in wait in our neighborhood," Racio Budepest, 


RESTRICTED 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100060-3 


ee 


25X1A2g 


Approved For Release fessiosiocasmcne RESTRICT E Rae 


- 3 = 


for example, proclaims that "to stand one's ground in the Hungarian sector reans to fight 
these enemies who are ready to commit any deed.” Radio Peking, in a comment ery pledging 
the “doom” of the American imperialists and the ")4beration” of Formosa, declares thet 
“the peace-Loving people throughout the world... will vnite still more closely and deal 
mortal blows to the aggressors.” Radio Berlin associates the Korean "attac!” and the 
consequently “strengthened European determination for peace” with the alleged fact that 
"Y,5, imperialiem is becoming more and more hated by all the nations of the world,” And 
there is the above-mentioned Warsaw reference to the "simple people through ut the world 
(who) want peace and (who) are prepared to fight for it." 


WFTU'S "WEEK OF ACTIVE SOLIDARITY WITH THE KOREAN PEOPLE"; <A West-Ber. in paper re- 
ports that according to the "Department of Foreign Relations of the Soviet-ione Office of 
Information,” the "partisans of peace" are planning to appeal for volunteer: to form an 
international brigade for action with the North Koreans. This hes not been confirmed 
explicitly in any monitored Soviet-Commnist broadcasts, But a fair amount of publicity 
is given to the WFTU-sponsored “week of active solidarity with the Korean psople,” which 
begins today. The word "ective" is not amplified. The only material aseisSance that 
has been reported is a Polish drive for "money collections which will be organized in 
factories for a fund to assist the victims among the defenseless civilian population 
varbarously bombed by the U.S. Airforce." In this connection, North Korean brosdcasts 
repeatedly cleim that the North Koreans "do not stand alone” and that they have the 
support of the USSR and the other "forces of peace and democracy.” They do not elaborate 
on the nature of this support, however. 


THE CONDITIONS FOR SOVIET INVOLVEMENT IN MILITARY OPERATIONS: Only rarely have Soviet 
broadcasts made reference to the conditions under which the USSR is "permitted" tc go to 
war, But this week, a Home Service broadcast spells out the conditions: cnoly in case of | 
military attack from the outside, or to fulfill international obligations for mutual 
defense ageinst aggression, The commentery also makes reference to the alleged insepara- - 
bility of wars from imperialism, and proclaims that the unconquerable Soviet Army stands 
on guard for peace, 


OTHER AREAS ALLEGEDLY THREATENED BY THE “TMPERIALISTS": Kast-German sources continue. 
to hold up the specter of a Korea-like imperialist” attack on Germany, Tie clandestine 
"Free Greece” radio continues to warn about an extension of a Tito-involvec “imperialist . 
war" in the Balkens, particularly egeinst Albania and Bulgeria, And Budaprst talks about - 
Tito “lying in wait in our neighborhood." 


+ 


RESTRICTED 


RESTRICTED 


Approved For Release 1999/09/01 : CIA-RDP78-04864A000100100060-3 


