CLASSIFICATION © CQRPEUNEPIAL, CONFIDENTIAL -25X1A 


a Approved For Release RAIGaMbE R4ANSDPS2-00AS7ROOKGO I Jus Dp 
Seg INFORMATION REPORT — cpno. gS 
8 AUG 50 
COUNTRY China DATE DISTR. 
SUBJECTS Reaction of Hong Kong Chinese to US Policy in NO. OF PAGES 2 
Korea and Taiwan | . 
—— NO.OF ENCLS. 
ACQUIRED 
DATE OF 20X1A SUPPLEMENT TO 
INFO. REPORT NO. 


25X1X le US acbion in Korea has offered much encouragement to the peoples of Asia 
‘who are attempting to resiat Commmist domination, At the seme time, however, 
ii has given the Commmista, who are capitalizing on the nationalist senti~ 
aenta of these people, an opportunity to paint for them a picture of an 
aggvessive United States imposing ita will on Asia through the application 
of military might. Propsganda of this type will gain ground an long as the 
Americans are forced to fight Asiatics in ordex to restore peace in the 
Fay Eagt. . 

2, The fact that the Soviet Union haa openly repudiated the decision of the 
UN Security Council makea it clear that the Soviet Union will not readily 
yield. This does not mean that a shooting war is inevitable. The Soviet 
Union does not nced to engage its own forces in a shooting war. It can 
veadily ingtigate in any part of the world action similar to that in Korea. 
These incidents may equally call for US military action. If the US does 
not accept the challenge her prestige as a world leader is threatened, 
while if she does accept, she vill be in danger of exhausting her manpower 
end material resources in fruitless combat with the Soviet satellites. 

The USSR will. enter the picture directly only when by the exertion of 
relatively little effort it can tip the scales in its own favor. 


3. Fresident Truman's statement insofar ag Taiwan is concerned waa a very 

- gerioug blow to the Chinese Communists. The conquest of Taiwan was the top 
meiority objective for the year 1950. They cannot and will not cancel. 
their plans to assavlt the ialand. President Truman's statement and the 
peesence of the Seventh Fleet in the Formosa Straits will not deter them. 
Avandonment of invasion plana would destroy the prestige the Chinese Soum= 
nists have achieved by their uninterrupted victories over the Nat ionalista 
and theixs success in eliminating Western influence from China. Low-ranking 
Gommunists fervently hope that the conquest of Taiwan and Tibet will be 
followed by a pexiod of peaceful internal reconstruction, If the US inter 

_venes in Taiwan, these Communista will feel that the US is imposing an 
umnecessary hardship upon them. Such feeling will tend to postpone indefi~ 
nately the possibility of a serious split in the ranks of the Chinese Com-- 
runist Party. 


he ‘he US will have to fight the Chinese Vommnists if they attack Tainan. 
guch a war would have high propaganda value for the Communists. Further~ 
more, the US would loge its last opportunity to wean China away from the 


EST Navy ra 
XS AIR 


This document Is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 
letter of 16 October 1978 from the 
Director of Central intelligence to the 
| Archivist of the United States. 


Approved For Releases RE A AE .00457R008400730006-0 


25X1A 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. ai 
we Ban 


Soviet bloc. 


‘he US decision on Korea was a atatesmanLike one, prompted by unselfish 
motives. However, the fact that the US is forced to take the primary 
responsibility in this case is evidence that the US hag not done enough 
to organize democratic forces in Evrope and Asia. It has atregssed “too 
mich the role played by those in power. The US cannot hope to combat 
Communism successfully unless it is prepared to fight in the fashion 
leagt acceptable to it - an eye for an eyes, subversion for subversion. 


a 


f 
CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Releas sA¢0 #0 § RS4EiNa ENE Bp 8 2-00457R005400730006-0 


