epee CLASSIFIC270N SOWP YACRTLAL 


| - . Approved For CSIEE YY 2UUGHIAACENCIA AREENZYO CBA RERORT 
: INFORMATION REPORT op no, cis 
COUNTRY Korea CONFIDENTIAL DATE DISTR. 24 aug 50 
SUBJECT New Political Organization in Seoul NO. OF PAGES 3 
25X11 
ACQUIRE NOSE Ewes 
ACQ | 
SUPPLEMENT TO 
Neo ic REPORT NO, 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


Medic tie ttidethukehiad nedeud da beaeer ie otk ohn aed 


SSS Si SSS 


1. The North Korean forces in Seoul have set up a government for the southern half 
25X1 of Korea, with the following general organization: 


Peoplets Committee of South Korea ¢ —~—> People's Army Headquarters 


H 
w 
Bureau of State Security a 
ig ee 


People's Comaittee, Seoul 


State ee Police 
\, 
Hegional. Police 


Security Troops 


The People’s Committee and the People's Army exercise joint control over governe 
ment and security functions, The People's Committee has branches in each area 
to handle civil administration and all matters pertaining to daily life, and 

it also assists the police in maintaining public order. 


2. As soon as the People's Army occupies an area, political leaders accompanying 
the army organize a People's Committee, utilizing underground elenernts or 
organs active in the area previously. Control is maintained by the leaders 
arriving with the army. Government officials of South Korea who remained in 
Seoul are mostly cooperuting with the new goverment, although some rather 
reluctantly. 


3. At the same time, the State Security Police are formed from former underground 


CON FIDENTIAL 


CONFIDEW 


CLASSIFICATION 


29X1 


This document is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 
letter of 16 October 1978 from the 
Director of Central Intelligence to the 
Archivist of the United States. 


Next Review Date: 2008 


Approved For Release 2006/03/17 : 


(0 HPSS OT 1 TT TEs Te 1 Ce CRS LAD oP SoU BCE a MPO 


sy 


x 


ie 


To 


8. 


96 


25X1 
WRAP GRABRABTROCSSOC7S000G 


Br. ey 


Approved For Rele ene ne 


elenents, middle~of~the-road pro-—Comunist elements, and members of the Leftist 
Coaversion Guidance Alliance, Under the State Security Police are security 
troops made up of citizens, students, and members of the Youth Alliance, and 
People's Protection Corps who aid in preserving «rder. The State Security 
Police are mostly in civilian clothes and are armed with carbines, although a 
fiw carry Uodel 99 rifles or 71, Security troops carry wooden clubs and a few 
have rifles. 


Goverment offices of the new regime in Seoul are located in the following 
buildings: 


. Pecplie's Committee of Seoul Former City Hall 


Sota Xorean Labor Party and State Taehan Youth Corps Building 
Security Sureau 
Division Ueadquarters of the veoplets Department of Commerce and Industry 3uilding 


A 


State Security Police local police stations 
Yational Council Headquarters South Korean Lasor Party Building 
Democratic Alliance leadquarters unicipal Yall 
Feoplets Samy and Soviet iMlitary American Mnbassy 
Advisory Group (about 100 persons) 


The military headquarters was easily identified because many officers of high 
rank were in and out of the building frequently and avout two thousand soldiers 
were assembled in front of the »ilding in the early morning of July. Seoul 
opinion was that the capitol building would be considered only the seat of a 
preparatory committee until the arrival of Ii Il-sdng in Seoul. eanwhile, the 
building is restricted and can be entered only by Communists. 


The occupyire forces took over the printing factory which issued Sank of Chosen 
currenuy bu’ have made no increase in currency in circulation. ‘‘embers of the 
‘orth Horean Lasor Union took over the Seoul Electric Company and are running it. 
“Lle.tricity supplies for the city are normal but the streetcars are not running. 


the first ne spaper in Seoul to welcome the People's Army was the “orea Daily 
Hews (Cho Son Il Po, 9A Sf Zk). Its example was followed vy the Tiverty jews 
(Cha vu Sin lun,§ 14) $6 ff). and by the Kyonghyang jews (Ching lsiang Hsin Jen, 
‘2 $6 Zr. }s Othe ’ : 130 joined the march. 

Bd 466 #f is Js Other paners also joined the march 


the executions which occurred at the beginning of -he occupation o1 vegus nau 
slowed dowm by 6 July, Rumors were current that large-scale purvzes would follow 
the conquest of Pusan, but Seoul was largely quiet. Principal concentration 

in the Scoul purges was on police, military personel, government officials ’ 
leaders of right-wing political partics, and refugecs from North Morea. These 


‘last if not killed were punished severely for their "insult" to the North Korean 


governnent in going south, Traders who had been operating across the 38th 
Parallel, however, were given special omnesty. 


On 3 July a mass meeting was held in front of the City Hall. The following organ— 
izations participated: 


South Uorea Lavor Party 
People's Democratic Party 
Laboring People's Party 


Buddhist Youth Union 

Korea Democratic Party (part) 

Racial Democratic Party 

Democratic Independence Party Racial Unification Federation 

Social Nemocratic Party Literary Vorkers! Federation 

Independent Labor Party Scientists! Union 

Zorea Independence Party Uducators! Society 

hew Prozressive Party «nti-Japanese Movement Supporters! Society 
Youth friendship Party Federation for Protection of Human Rights 
Socialist Party Christian Decocratic Union 

nacial Independence Federation Democratic Korean Independence Party 
National Farming People's Federation Taehan Lasor Union (part) 

national Laborers’ Council Yaehan Parmers' Federation (part) 
Penocratic Students! Federation ‘mti-lascist Struggle ivederation 


Approved For Release 2006/03/77 '* GLA-RDP82-00457R005500730006-9 


cag 


i 
i 
{I 
I 
4 
fl 


\ 


on 


10, 


ll. 


12, 


dh. 


15. 


Approved For ber 2006/0 H¥ Kiet ERENT AL 


ENTRAL INTEGLIGENCE AGENCY 25X1 
~3- 


Democratic Youth Alliance Labor-Agriculture Youth Union 


Democratic Voments Union 


Signbuards at the City Hall displayed announcements of the People's Committees 
of Seoul and the Welcome Comnittee for PAK Honyéng (f} % 4). By Pikts 


order, a conference of representatives of all goverment offices was held at 
the City Hall on 5 July. 


The People's Army issues continuous active propaganda through radio, theatre, 
newspapers, and pamphlets, to the effect that all cities of South “Norea have 
been completely occupied. former underground groups, such as the Literary 
“Workers! Union and other cultural and officially liberal groups have put their 
members to work publishing newspaners and periodicals. Groups affiliated with 
the Literary Vorkers' Union were mobilized and organized into a Consolation and 
Support Society for the People's Army; part of its function is to spread propa 
ganda through meetings and pudlications, 


Propaganda unit organization is somewhat as follows: 
Propaganda Section 
i 


A EO 


neal: eiemmmmenenaans weeeemnntenny saab: 9 . 
People's Army City Propaganda Publication Art Section 


Consolation and Class Section 
Support Society —4 Theatre Class 
; Strebt Vocation Newspaper Class 
Class Class Post Class 


jagazine Class 
‘abusic Class 
Street Propa=} 

ganda Class 


The population in general is lissatisfied with the occupation, since economic 
problems have become much greater. indirect economic sabotage exists but has. 

had no opportunity to become organized because of the North Korean security 
measures. The merchant classes obey the new govermaent strictly but are part— 
icularly disturbed. Food supplies are scarce. No rice is sold at official prices, 
and even at the black market rates of 15,000 to 20,000 won per mal, rice is not 
sold unless the buyer and seller trust each other, In other com:odities, business 
is practically at a standstill. In spite of these factors, many refugees have 
come to Seoul from ‘Vonsan, Pyongyang, and Hamhunz to avoid bombings. 


ALL persons between seventeen and thirty years old have »een mobilized. “len are 
assigned to transporting supplies to the battle fronts, women to Laundry work, 
prepariny food for the troops, repairing reads for the army, and hauling materials. 
About thirty thousand students who volunteered for the People's Army were sent 

for training to Chunchon (127, 2752), which had not been attacked by air raids, 
and are being instructed morning and evening; classes are not held during the day 
to avoid air attack. 


3uildings and areas in Seoul which were damaged by air raids include: 


Soge-dong and Sangak-chi, where troops were stationed, 
apo prison and its vicinity 

Seoul Nailroad Station plaza and its vicinity 
Part of Defense Headquarters 

Sobinggo 

Vlehiero, Pirst Army 

Sindang-dong 

Umbassy Building 

Part of the Capitol 

Hwasin Department Store 

Ewha Vomen's College 


CONFIDENTIAL 


COUFIDAATIAL . 
Approved For Release 2066/03/17 : CIA-RDP82-00457R005500730006-9 


