29X1A 


29X1A 


295X1A 


25X1A9a 


\ ! 


F r, Die & é Kh oe 
Approved For Release 2001/08/30 : 00662R00010006 017- 


Assistant Director, Special Orerations 28 August 1950 
Assistant Director, Reports and Estimates 


Intelligence Reporting on Korea 


i. This office has been charged with the responsibility of 
supplying to the White House every twenty-four hours a brief account 
of the military situation along the fighting lines in Korea and a 
report on the most significant political developments and changes 
taking place as the result of hostilities. During the first welks 
of the fighting, on military developments wore excellent 
aad were promptly rece by teletype. This information contri~ 
buted appreciably to ourdatly reports 


2. In the field of siguificant political developments, our 
daily report to the President has been lacking to an enbarrassing 
degree. Because of this insufficiency, we have had to call this 
to the attention of the Dirsctor in our quarterly analysis of 
fisid collection. In an effort to rectify this lack by further 
providing for SO substantive guidance and direction to sollection, 
I requested my responsible officers concerned to survey briefly 
80 reporte since 25 June for the purpose of determining gaps in 
information. 


3+ Aside fron the military and tactical reports produced by 
ta] ORE has received no significant inforaation on political 
conditions and developgents in North Korea since 25 Jume. The 
fourteen reports in Attachnent "A" were selected for conuent 
beeause thay do contain some information on North Korea ‘ut in the 
main they congist mostly of overt generalities and rumors obtained 
from » PCX's and stragglers. No reports have dealt with 
such significant developments as internal security of North Korea, 
government reaction to the prolonged fighting, secret political 
maneuvering of the Red Korean governsent with other Soviet satellite 
comtries, conferences with Soviet officials in Pyongyang on future 
courses of action, and economic and political effects of UN bombing. 
A brief list of intelligence requirements currently desired from 
North Korea is herein attached and is believed to fall within the 
scope of 50's missions 


kk. Recently EBM froo UN-occupied areas of Korea show 
a@ very desirable trend axay frou the early post—hostilities concen~ 
tration on tactical information. There has been an increase in 
quantity and quality of reporting on South Korea due, in part, 
apparently to lesa dependence on refugees. 


THEODORE BABHITT 


Attacl ee ee ca 
l 01/08/30 ‘5-00662R000100060017-0 
“SM ESET ages onsearae 
Per 


