¥ 7s a8 : ‘5 as 7 “ys . i 


Approved for Release: 2021/06/1 6 05708824" 


- Sime} AY 
CLASSIFICATION congzrferza, «UE rye 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT NO, (b)(3) 
INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS) CD NO. (b)(3) 
COUNTRY International DATE OF 
INFORMATION 1950 
SUBJECT Political (Editorial) 
HOW DATE DIST. & Se, 1950 
PUBLISHED Daily newspapers 
WHERE A 
PUBLISHED Hong Kong NG. OF PAGES 5 
DATE 
PUBLISHED 29 - 31 Jul 1950 . 
SUPPLEMENT TO 
LANGUAGE Chinese REPORT NO. 


THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
OF THE UNITFO STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF SAPIONAGE ACT 80 
. 2. C., STAND 32, AS AMENDED. ITS TRANSMISSION OR THE ALVELATION 
OF ITS CONTENTS IN AMY MANNER TO AN UMAUTHORIZEO PERSON 13 PRO- 
HIBITRO GY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM IS PROHIBITED. 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


SOURCE Hsing-tao Jih-pao. 


DISCUSSES RELATIONSHIP OF KOREAN WAR TO A THIRD WORLD WAR 


The following editorial represents the definitel, pro-Boviet pol- 
icy now adopted by the Hong Kong Hsing-tao Jih-pao. There is no 
masthead to ascertain whether or not there have been personnel changes 
on the staff. However, the paper does not, as yet, carry a registra- 
tion number from the Canton Military Control Commission. The only two 
Hong Kong papers carrying such registration numbers at present are the 


Wen-hui Pao and the Ta Kung Pao. 


‘ The present stage of tne conflict between North and South Korea has not 
- arisen from an egsentially internal conflict, but from the expansion of the 

conflict between the US and the Soviet Union. The conflict resulted from the 
fect that the South Koreans were compelled to take a passive defensive atti- 
tude in answer to which the North chose an active offensive across the whole 
porder at once into the territory of South Korea. This consideration would 
lead to the conclusion that the camp of peopje's democracy and socialism had 
decided to wage & pitched struggle against imperialiss in Korea. However, 
this ig not actually the tese. 


Wars are carried on by political governments, and they are based on cer- 

tain socioecynomic systems. The Soviet economic system is built on socialism. 

The Soviet Union is not in danger of privation within its own territories. It 
- does not require colonies dr foreign markets. The socialist system does not 
need, as does the capitalist system, to resort frequently to foreign war in 


order to relax its internal conflicts. 


: One viewpoint is that socialism anu capitalism'must inevitably be in 
‘ conflict. However, the Soviet Union does not wish to use her military strength 
“4 or the power of world revolution ito overcome capitalism. She firmly believes 
that time is on her side and that as time passes she will become stronger and. 
a the capitalist areas weaker. ‘Therefore, her basic policy is to preserve her 
* political power and carry on a peaceful economic race with the capitalist coun- 
tries and thus win over or overcome. the whole world. However, 4 militarily de- 
fensive policy must be aided by an aggressive political policy. A really peace~ ] 
ful policy is not one that merely weits in fear, for the lightiing’ of war to © 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIZEN 
DISTRIBUTION 


. as CONFIDENTIAL 


Wee ah at 


sApproved for Release: 2021/06/16 C05708824 : : 


a. ot 


4 ee : . -% ; 
Approved for Release: 2021/06/16 C05708824 


eye ry VA 
mseesvile oy hay 

Me te de ba dee 
4 a VWNeade 


wd 


CONFIDENTIAL 


strike, but it encroaches on the defense lines of.the imperialistsy and strength- 
ens and expands its‘Own war potential. Applying this principle to the present 


instance, the aggression of North Korea is merely an item in the defensive pol- — 


icy of the socialistic people's democratic camp. 


To carry out this sort of policy it is necessary to make a sudden con- 
certed attack in strength at a weak point of the enemy and;-wi'thout provoking 
a geneval conflict, exploit it before he can gather his strength. South Korea 
was admittedly a weak point in the anti-Soviet orbit. The arbitrary division 
of the country at the 38th Parallel was opposed by both North and South Koreans 
of democratic tendencies. Syngman Rhee and his landlord party was opposed by 
all the workers and had no chance for survival. There was practically no dis- 
tinction between his government and that of the Chinese KMT in its inefficiency 
and corruption. 


The Forum, British Labor Party weekly, pointed out that the Rhee govern- 
ment was not worthy of any support from the West. General Hodge, the former 
American military governor, expressed himself as certain that South Korea was 
an indefensible spot. While some US officials now declare that the withdrawal 
of US occupation troops from South Korea was an egregious error, it was appar- 
ent that the Korean people were opposed to a continuation of the military guv- 
ernnent. The fact that the US only supplied the Rhee government with military 
equipment suitable for internal security purposes is evidence that the US be- 
lieved that to furnish Rhee with high-quality military equipment would be the 
same as handing it over to the North Korean Communists. 


The Soviet Union, aware of this attitude, grasped this golden opportunity 
to have the People's Republic overthrow the Rhee government, knowing that 
should the US directly intervene she would find it very difficult to secure 
the loyalty of the Koreans either to the Rhee government or to any US-sponsored 
regime, and should she not intervene, her prestige in all Asia would suffer a 
body blow. The US's strength would at the sane time be dissipated. 


While the US may be able to stabilize Europe by following the capitalistic 
line, in the Far East conditions are much different. Here imperialism and na- 
tional liberation aspirations are in serious conflict. The Soviet is exploit- 
ing the idea of liberation to the fullest extent by supporting the CCP's claim 
to a seat in the UN, by declaring that she would not interfere in the Korean 
conflict, and by supporting the Viet Minh against Viet Nam. She realizes that 
the support of revolutionary programs is essential to her existence. But to 
say that the USSR supnorts liberation movements in the Far Fast ia not equiva-~- 
lent to saying that she is ready to throw down the gauntlet to the US there in 
a military sense. She only wants the North Koreans to eliminate one of the 
US's Far Eastern bases. She is not ready to retreat entirely from the UN. She 
wants fa place! to employ criticism as a weapon. She will support the anti- 
imperialist antiwar struggle among workers outside her borders, but this strug- 


gle is really intended to promote peace. She does not yet desire war; ia fact, . 


she still wants to avoid it. 


Although the US had long since decided that she and the Soviet Union could 
not exist together in the same world and was vigorcusly preparing for war, the 
Korean invasion took her entirely by surprise. While her military strategy was 
offensive, her [political] policy was défensive, in exact contrast to the policy 
of the Soviet Union. She desired to avoid all small diversionary conflicts un- 
til her strength was wholly mobilized. For this very reason it is the policy of 
the Soviet Union to wear the US out with small conflicts from Iceland to the 
Philippines and from Alaska to the Bosporus. 


During the first 2 weeks of the Korean conflict, representative US spokes- 
men, both military and political, all played down the likelihood of the Korean 
affair developing into a large-scale conflict. It is hardly likely that these 
sentiments were expressed merely for window dressing, but more likely represent’ 


ra in = eae ; . P . = 
« . % We = . q 


SEEREEAMEEEREEEE Dproved for Release: 2021/06/16 C05708824— 


Approved for Release: 2021/06/16 C05708824 


QONFIAETIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL (b)(3) : 


their true sentiments. At the same time, the great clamor outside and inside 

the Congress indicates that, the US is distressed. This distress seems to 

arise from the fact that the US's military preparations are not completed and 
the time for an all-out struggle has not arrived. The Korean squabble throws 
he> p?.ans off balance. 


There is not sufficient determination to fight, and yet not to fight 
would bring about an intolerably floundering sort of situation. So the US 
took the action through the Security Council, condemuing North Korea and or- 
dering the Navy and Air Force to aid South Korea. Senator McCarran demands 
breaking off relations with the USSR and her satellites in'order to recover. 
the US's world leadership while at the same time avoiding a general war. 
This idea reveels the fact that the US is not ready for an all-out effort. 
The clamor from other Western nations for the use of a few A-~bombs to settle 
the Koreun affair indicates that these countries hope the affair can be set- 
tled between the US and the USSR without dragging them into it. 


Utterances like Hoover's call for the expulsion of the Soviet Union from 
the UN, and Senator Tyding's pronunciamento that while the US should make a 
strong campaign in Korea but should not get bogged down there, are simply an- 
other way of saying that the US should not allow pin pricks to divert her 
from her main military objectives. The US weekly, United States News and 
World Report, after setting forth the comparative strength of the US and the 
Soviet Union: concludes by saying that should the war be staved off, military 
and economic strength’ should be increased. Should the war come soon, one 
side might win mre rity yet both sides would be completely exhausted eco- 
nomically. 


The US authorities, while severely taking the Soviet Union to task for 

aiding North Korea, felt confident that the USSR would not take overt action, 

and so used these charges to arouse the people of the US and the world. 

While committing only naval and air forces to the action, they loudly pro- | 
_ claimed the great danger of the incident to world-peace. Only thus could | 
ad they arouse their péople to commit all the material resources and manpower to 

preparation for war and lead ‘the capitalistic countries to prepare quickly. 

The action of the &ecurity Council and Lie's appeal to the member: PELLORS had 

the same, purpose. 


The US underestimated too greatly the strength of North Korea. (The 
strength of the laboring masses is often immeasurable ona material basis. ) 
The naval and air forces were “insufficient to save Rhee's gove:.ment. The 
land forces committed later were also constantly defeated. Heavy bombings 
and coastal blockades were also unavailing. US defense chief Johnson wryly 
admitted that the North Koreans fought like devils. MacArthur, constantly 
called for greater powers and more men and materiel, and stated that if the 
Korean battle were lost, the US would be finished in Asia. But, the passing 
days only more fully revealed the real gravity of the situstion. Truman ac-. 
knowledged that the US, with insufficient men and supplies, was meeting a 
force, well eupplied and excellently led, that would require a heavy commit- 
ment of men and means to overcome. He called on the country and all the Allied 
nations to commit *hemselves rapidly to building up their economic and military 
atrength in order to maintain their position as free nations. 


Stock prices immediately resnonded to the Korean incident and stocks of 
companies making munitions and chemicals went up, as well as prices of rubber 
and other criticsl war goods. However, the US government recognized that 
though an all-out war could not be avoided and though the Korean incident 
might hasten it, pians for meeting che situation must be carried out in an or- 
derly manner. The Congress took speedy action on extending periods of military 
service and on extension of the selective service. In steel manufacture, 


-3- 
CONFIDENTIAL 


. oe be d hare ia ae se : : 
' coun 7 iks « oS fee ‘ 


Approved for Release: 2021/06/16 C05708824 


CONFIDENTIAL 


voluntary controls are still considered sufficient. Civilian defense measures 
are being speeded up under Symington's leadership, but will still take time to 
develop. 


The question of manpower and resources controls is still left unsettled. 
A conflict is on over the matter of total or partial mobilization. One thing 
that holds the authorities back from rapid mobilization is the laboring 
classes. The poor masses have not yet been entirely anesthetized by the anti- 
Soviet and anci-Communist doctrine and completely bound to the Wall Street war 
party's chariot. Consequently, the White House authorities have to go slow, 
and waile the war situation is still not too tense, prepare the minds of the 
workers to be soldiers and the operators of industry to be officiers, and to 
place military controls on production. 


On 2 July the iron range area in Minnesota and the steel-producing areas 

in the Midwest and East were declared military restricted areas. On 8 suly 
. Truman ordered the Fifth Army to take over the strike-bound Rock Island Rail- 
road. The commander of that army requested the Department of Justice to pre- 
é pare the necessary laws to control labor. -McGreth and Tobin are now in proc- 
' ess of preparing such legal procedures. : 

In the meantime Wall Street is working to strengthen its hand with labor. 
Last year at a meeting of the Steel Institute, Secretary Sawyer of the De- 
partment of Commerce openly advised the capitalists to employ funds to buy 
labor leaders and make their financial path easy so that they wald be willing 
to take risks in carrying on the anti-Communist struggle. 

This policy has already shown fruit. One week after the beginning of the 
Korean conflict, the head of the CIO Seaman's Union petitioned the Senate for 
an appropriation of over 700 million dollars for a big -ship-building program 
in preparation for an all-out war. On 10 July Green of the AFL stated that 
the Korean struggle must be won, and the chief of the CIO announced that the 
CLO would.cooperate with the AFL, What reaction will these declarations bring 
from the leborers? This will depend on the efficacy of the anti-Communist 
propaganda. ‘To promote its war campaign Wall Street seeks not only to crush 
Communism and the Communist Party, but seeke to silence all voices of liberty 
and democracy and all agencies that are opposed to certain laws. 


The FBI, the Un-American Activities Committee, and the Taft-Hartley law 
have already exercised a great effect. As the war hysteria arises, even 
Henry Wallace, the so-called "blind follower of Russia” and "Communist fellow 
traveler," has anncunced that, while he holds no hriet for the actions of 
either the US or the Soviet Union in the past, now that his country is en- 
gaged in a war which is also supported by the UN, he’ must stand on the side of 
hie countrv. Many are of the opinion that this turnover on his part is evi- 
dence of the intention of the US to start a war. 


The US is making use of the Korean cfisis to test out the attitudes, 
viewpoints, end determination of the Soviet orbit countries and to frighten 
them. The response of the UN members to Lie's appeal to them to support the 
US-sponsored Se:urity Council resolution must have been disappointing. While 
most cf them expressed agreement and support in principle, they were not will- 
ing to go further than that. They are all standing aside to watch the Soviet- 
US struggle. This has revealed to the White House that it aust exert much 
greater pressure to strengthen the anti-Soviet front. 


Senator Knowland raised the question of what these powers meant by tak- 
ing a diffident attitude toward the struggle. He said that the US does not 
need any other country's military sid; she only wants them to take a atand on 
her side. Democratic Senator Benton said that while the US does not need mil- 
itary aid, the offer of even small forces from other powers will make it clear 
that this is not an imperialist undertaking. H> referred particularly to such 
countries as the Philippines and Pakistan. 


, ee em 


CONFIDENTIAL 


GAxe:; rom 
] . Soh y! MEN; by: dl | 


a > So ae — — 55 , = = ‘ me , 
ee : z ¥ ~ < oa 4 mee 
fa =. tem ~ oe =F ata meer 


MApproved for Release: 2021/06/16 C05708824) ; + Aa ie re 


ey 2 RASS as a aes pee ‘ . ue 


Approved for Release: 2021/06/16 C05708824 


QONF:DENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL (b)(3) 


Here the writer lists the responses of the varicus nations to tL. 
call to aid in the Korean campaign with the inference that all that 
acted favorably did so under US pressure. He concludes that their 
reluctance to, act favorably arose from the likelihood that they would 
gain nothing, on tue’one hund, and the opposition of the masses in 
the -yaricug countries which made their rulers cautious, on the other. 
He emphasizes that the colonial countries and week countries were es- 
pecially reluctant. He cites a statement of the Eire foreign minis- 
ter to the effect that the South Korean forces were resisting the 
will of the people, and a statement of the New Zealand prime minister 
that the .conflict was only an extension of the Soviet-US conflict 
in which New Zealand did not care to become involved. The writer 
cites the debate in the British Parliament as very siguificant in re- 
vealing the conflict of ideas in the British government in this mat- 
ter. 


‘Yruman has shown his concern over the apparent apathy of the nations to- 
ward the US's actions in Korea in letters to leaders of Congress in which he 
has indicated that he believes a great campaign of propaganda must be con- 
ducted tb change the attitudes of other peoples if there is to be any prospect 
of. lasting peace at all. What Senator Benton has called the "ideological 
Marshall pian" is only another weapon of Wall Street to bring all peoples un- 
der its demoniacal control and lead them into the terrible throes of a third 

, world war. 


Ap pproved for Release: 2021/06/1 6 C05708824 


