(WTELLOFAX 91 CLASSI WAT ON CORI LL MOOI Bs 25X1A 


ae Approved FoFRGMast ddd UBIO ECMRISPE2-00457REGSROMGO1-S a 


INFORMATION REPORT op no. 
CONFIDENTIAL | 


COUNT. Howes DATE. DISTR, 8 SEP 50 

SUBD?  Gowth Korea Labor Party Instructions to NO. OF PAGES 2 
Members 

PLACE NO. OF ENCLS. 


4LISTED SELOW) 


ACQUIRED 


DATE OF SUPPLEMENT TO 
INFO. REPORT NO. 


2. In early April 1950, the South Korean “abor Party central headquarters 
issued a letter of instruction toe all district organizations in South Korea 
concerning the National Guidance Federation (Kuk Min Po Do Tun Maeng, iX| ie 
Ax a Fg SH) and other activities, 


2. The instructions were phrased as follows: 
a, Goncerning the National. Guidance Federation: 
1) Find out the major oppressive forms of the enemy's policy. 


2) Show that key Communists who are converted will be unconditionally 
punished, 


3) Show that average or common Communists who join the Federation will 
be punished after temporary use as informants. 


h) -Prevent the conversion of Communists » on the grounds that the enemy 
is seducing them through a policy of tyranny. 


5) Try to infiltrate membera into the Federation and cause confusion 
within its organization so that the South Korean authorities will 
lose confidence in the members of the Federation and will therefore 
decide to disband it, 


6) As members are infiltrated into the Federation, try to spread 
propaganda preventing new members from joining, stressing that new 
members or anyone who discloses the presence of undesirable 
infiltraters will be severely punished. 


be Measure in preparation for a struggles 
1) Enforce redistribution of land through basic points of agitation. 
2) Try to bring pressure for land redistribution through people's 


rebellions in order to extend the areas liberated. 


25X1 


CLASSIFICATI 


This document is hereby regraded 
CONFIDENTIAL in decofdance with ihe 
lotter of 16 October 1978 from the 
Director of Central Intelligence to the 
Archivist of the United States, 


Next Revie PoP RMBASse 2002/08/08 : 


Approved For Release 2002/08/08 : CIA-RDP82-00457R005700280001-5 


COUP IDENTIAL 20XIA 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY [ 
wat nam 


3) In regard to food supplies, carry out propaganda work in favorable 
areas and obtain food supplies ly raiding villages where reaction- 
ary influence predominates. 


h) Supply activities are to be carried out by manipulation or operation 
of cell organizations, and, in villages where reaction is rife, in 
coordination with operational unxit activities. 


5) A reasonable quantity of food stuffs will be achieved by any means 
available and will be stored. 


6) Tri areas or townships where movenent and activity can be conducted 
easily, emphasis should be placed on protection of the higher staff 
through training cells or township party branches, with particular 
attention to training of enthusiasts. 


ec. Instruction on fighting tactics: 
1) ‘emed forceswill secure voice and power through guerrilla warfare. 


2) Branch party organization should not neglect to cooperate with or 
render assistance to the activities of armed troops. The branch 
should inform itself in advence as to how best it can cooperate. 


d. Information networks and liaison liries: Since the old methods are no ; 
longer practicable, initiative will have to be displayed in this field. 


e. Activity against the military police: The military police should be 
opposed and frustrated through both propaganda and actual armed attack. 
Propaganda should follow the line that the military police has reaction- 
ary elements and it will spread reaction through its recruiting. 


f, Attacks on provincial identification certificates: The issuance of 
provincial citizens! identification cards or certificates is one phase 
of the Fascist means of annihilsting democratic patriotic youth. 
Therefore, various means of nullifying the certificate must be applied. 
Certificates which have been stolen may be used, but most stolen goods 
should be burnt. These tactics will aid in promoting political confusion 
in South Korea, one of tie aims of our party. 


25X1A * L__Comnent.. The Guidance group ts composed of former Communists who 
were converted to the "democratic" viewpoint and were organized into groups 
for instruction in democratic methods and policies. 


CONFIDENTIAL 
Approved For Release 2002/08/08 : CIA-RDP82-00457R005700280001-5 


