State Dept. declassification & ae OK e jon 


ADDRESS OFFICIAL. communica ARRGOVE d F o r 4 ae 
THE SECRETARY OF STATE —_ : ‘ 
~DEPAR 


WASHINGTON 25, D.C. 


be: sails 
rs ite BY 


“STKTE “44464 


September 19, 1950 


Zo 
Pena ol wf 
Gad XN To: Assistant Directer 
aoe BY) uf The Central Intelligence Agency 
a < Office of Reports and Estimates 
uy 
> 
Ow of FROM: The Department of State 
: = g Office of Intelligence Research 
© m 
- a Lane 7 
Se SUBJECT: Request for Estimate of the Military Capabilities 
Ne ea © & of the Chinese Communists with Respect to Korea 
worg § @ 
e@s2 ES 
Agee: ay Reference is made to our memorandum of September 12, 1950, 


requesting om behalf of the Bureau of Far Eastern Affairs an inter- 
departmental intelligence estimate on the capabilities and intentions 
of the Chinese Communists with respect to Korea, which the Bureau asked 
to be ready by September 28. 


In the light of the significantly ohanged Korean situation 

created as a result of the recent landings by United Nations forces 
in areas near the 38th Parallel, the Bureau of Far Eastern Affairs 
now cancels the above mentioned request. It asks, instead, that there 
be prepared, on a much more urgent basis, a brief interdepartmenteal 
intelligence estimate fooused more narrowly on the current military 
capabilities and posture of the Chinese Communist forces with respect 
to Korea. Specifioally, the Bureau would like the estimate to include 
the best available information as to the size of the combat forces 
which the Chinese Communists now have available in Manchuria (with an 
indication ef the number actually poised near the Korean frontier) 

- end the extent to which they are equipped, with particuler reference 
to what they would need fer operations in Korea, In other words, the 
Bureau needs an evaluation of the extent to which the Chinese Communists 
may be mounting a real threat of military invasien of Korea end the type 
of operations thet they seem capable of carrying out, either south or 
north of the 38th Parallel. The Buresu has already found useful CIA's 
IM No. 524 of September 8, entitled, Probability of Direct Chinese 
Commmist Intervention in Korea, but eels that the changed Korean 
situation creates an urgent need for a more definitive appraisal of the 
immediate capabilities of the Chinese Communists for armed intervention 


in Korea, 


The Bureau asks thet the estimate be ready not later than noon, 
September 22. 4 aa 


Allan Evans 


| x 
CE. Zee E- aA Director 
= Jadyp ‘ 


Office of Intelligence Research 


2 
i : 001445, 9 “OM 
eae Approved For Release 2002@7RE2 CiA-F DP79-QB ETA pif 0009 ae Ve 


Reo e 8 


ee ee toaee Ko 


