i sd i; tr 
i SE oh 
1 ( ’ . . 1 4 1 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 - CIA-RDP80-00809A000600340706-0 


5 
CLASSIFICATION cousemminrals yc N TAL 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT 50X1-H UM 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD HO. 


COUNTRY China; US DATE OF 
INFORMATION 1950 
SUBJECT Sociological - Christians, Peace Appeal 
HOW ae DATE DIST. 4\ Sep 1950 
PUBLISHED Daily newspapers 
WHERE 
PUBLISHED Shanghai; Hankow NO. OF PAGES) 4& 
DATE 


PUBLISHED 2 Jul - 4 Aug 1950 
SUPPLEMENT TO 


LANGUAGE Chinese REPORT NO. 


Ba THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFICTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
OF THE UNITES STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT 50 
©. 2. C,, 91 AND 12,A8 AMENDED. ITS TRANSMISSION OR THE AEVELATION BE 
‘OF (TE CONTENTS IN ANY RARWER TO AN UNAUTHORIZED PRRSON (5 PRO- TY 
HIBITH BY LAW. REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM IS PROHISITRD. 


THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 
SOURCE Newspapers as indicated. 


CHINESE CHRISTIAN LEADERS SUPPORT GOVERNMENT, 
CONDEMN US ACTION IN KOREA, TAIWAN 


CHRISTIANS HOLD MASS MEETING IN SHANGHAI -- Shanghei Hein-wen Jih-pao, 2 Jul 50 


A neeting of over 200 Christians was held on 1 July in the Central YMCA 
on Szechwan Road in Shanghai to celebrate the 29th anniversary of the founding 
of the Chinese Communist Party and to mobilize in defense of world peace. Liu 
Liang-mo, chairman, said they could all be proud to be citizens of the new China 
under the leadership of the Communist Party and that each one should, during his 
week, get his friends to sign the peace petition, thus showing the world how , 
strong the Chinese people were for peace and how angry the Chinese had been made ~ 
by Truman's pronouncement of eT June. 


Wu Yao-teung, local representative of the Peace Movement, said the 911 
should learn from the Communist Party and crystallize the peace feeling among 
Christians and thus smash the aggressive intent of US imperialiem. Other speakers 
also urged the churches to mobilize their members for the signing of the peace 


appeal. 


A telegram was sent to Chairman Mao and Foreign Minister Chou supporting 
their protest against US aggressive actions. Shanghai Christians were warned 
.against US imperialism's using religion as a means of reaction and of plotting 
to destroy the new China. At the same time, the group was exhorted to support 
the liberation army in its efforts for an early liberation of Taiwan. An appeal 
was made to all religious pargeus to further the movement for peace signatures. 


age US IMPERIALISM, SUPPORTS WORLD PEACE -- Shanghei Hsin-wen Jih-pao, i 
Jul 50 . 


The following speech was made by Liu Liang-mo, chairman of the Christian 
qmeeting held in Shanghai, on 2 July 1950: : , net 


US warmcagers have begun Pierce aggression in the Far East. We religious 


people should earnestly support the peace appeai and resolrtely oppose the US 
imperialists. : 


% ° 


ea ce. GOWRLENTIAL 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL 


eee ss 


r 


bs 


d Copy Approved fo 


’ 


! Sn ; : l. 
1/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600340706-0 


1 


t 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 50X1-HUM¢ 


Some unreasoning peace lovers have stigmatized attacks on US imperialism 
as "not peaceable." They fail to see the evil of the bomb attacks by US-made 
planes. We must lead. them to see the US in true light. In fact ardent peace 

lovers who are religious resolutely oppose imperialism. A few running dogs of 
a the imperialists even bless their projects, as the Roman Church blessed Musso~- 
lini's fascist troops and as Bishop Yu Pin epoke in favor of Chiang's reaction- 
ary government. \ 


A few believers are two-faced, pretending to be progressive when they are 
really not. We shall show them that they must choose between standing in the 
Soviet peace camp or in the US imperialist var camp. If they try to stand on 
poth sides, they cannot escape the people's wrath. 


Most religious Chinese citizene are fairminded patriots. We must en- j 
lighten them -- Buddhists, Mosleme, Protestants, Roman Catholics -~ and lead : 
them into the great peace movement. 


From Protestantism we must eliminate imperialist influence, by showing 
how imperialism (especially US) exploits religion for reactionary purposes. 


We must appeal to US church people and citizens generally to resist Tru- 
man's 27 dune pronouncement and the warmongers! aggressive designs on Taiwan 
and Korea, We must support all antiwar sentiment in the US, and oppose US re- 4 
actionary support of Chiang, Rhee, Bao Dai, Quirino, and other such puppets. 
We know how US church people and citizens want to maintain peace, and believe 
they will protest even more against war. 


We also must let all the world know that we firmly support the statement 

of Mao and Ghou against US imperialist aggression. Taiwan is China's territory. 
We must earnestly support the liberation army's freeing of Taiwan at an early 

‘I date. We believe that, the Chinese people have abundant strength for completing 
this sacred duty. The US government's vending a fleet to China's Taiwe. is an 
act of imperialist aggression against China'g sovereignty. Suppose China should 
send a fleet to Long Island near New York, how would Americans feel and what 
would the world think? 


We warn Truman and other imperialist warmongers: If you suppose that by 
risking war you can settle your political and economic crises, please consider 
the fate of Hitler, Mussolini, and Japanese imperialism. If you suppose that 
Asiatic peoples will tamely submit to your violence, rlease look at China's re- 
sistance to Japan, and the great strength of the peoples of Viet Nam, Malaya, 
and Korea in.their struggle for national independence. If you start an aggres- 
sive war in Asia, you will, like Japan, be mired in Asia's bog, deeper and 4 
deeper; you will not be able to extricate yourself and in the end will be broken’ 
to pieces by the people of all Asia ant. the world, It will be «8s Malenkov said: 

. "Tp imperialism dares start a third world war, the entire imperialist system 
will perish." 


We deeply believe that the daily .acreasing of the world's peace efforts 
will defeat a blustering imperialism unsupported by the people. 


Natit CONDEMS <‘* IMPERIALIST AGGRESSION -- Hankow Ch'ang- :hiang Jih-pao, 
Aug 50 


4 
The following statement by Wang Kuo-bsin, chairman of the YWCA National { 
Committee, and 30 othzr Christian leaders in China, was published in the Shang- i 

hai Ta Kung Pao of 1 August. It strongly supports the declaration of Mao and 
Chou, and appeals to US Christians to stop this wicked aggression. The text | 
Pollows: | 
1 


-2- ; 


CONFIDENTIAL COUE \DENTIAL Z 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/08/17 :C 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600340706-0 


4 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Conn Derry Po 50X1-HUM 


US imperialism has madly begun an aggressive war in the Far East egainst 
Taiwan ana Korea. We Chinese Christians wish to join with the people of all 
China and the whole world, in resolutely opposing this aggressive US act which 
destroys world peace and disregards international good faith, 


We firmly support the strong statement of Chairman Mao and Foreign Minister 
Chou in regard to this aggressive act of US imperialism, Taiwan is China's ter- 
ritory. We warmly support the liberation army in freeing Taiwan. We believe 
that the Chinese people have sufficient strength to fulfill this sacred duty. 


the glorious successes they have already won, We believe they will attain final 
and complete victory, freeing their ancestral land from the cruel hands of im- 


| 

{ 

] 

| 

We declare our high admiration for the Korean people's brave fight and : 
| 

perialists. ' 
1 


We express hot indignation and stern protest against the wicked action of 
US planes in bombing Korean cities and Villages, killing vast numbers of inno- 
cent Korean men, women, and children. Truman's prayer for God's blessing on 
US imperialist aggression in Korea is a blasphemous vain wish. The just and 
loving God whom every sincere Christian worships surely will not bless a bloody 
murderer and his minions, Rather will Truman and other planners of US imperial- 
igsm's wicked acts experience God's severe condemation, 


US imperialist aggression in Taiwan and Korea clearly reveals the extreme i 
cruelty and wickedness of ite real nature, completely bankrupting its boasted ; 
freedom and democracy. This leads us to recognize US imperialism clearly and | 
set ourselves against it. To defeat such imperialist aggression is the common | 
duty of the entire world. 

| 
] 


In opposing US imperialiem, we are not against the good people of the Us. 
We appeal to US Christiane to etand with us in opposing US imperialist aggres- 
sion in Taiwan and Kcrea, in opposing Truman and all other warmongers sending 
the youth of the US and other countries to be cannon fodder at the front, in 
opposing US planes murdering Korean people; and in using effective means to stop | 
these wicked acts of US imperialism. 


Repeated defeats of US troops in Korea have proven the weakness of the US, 
and plainly shown the people's strength. Therefore, the uniting of the world's 
people to defeat US imperialist aggression, to shatter US imperialism's desire 
to make war, is entirely possible. We are glad to expend our .tmost atrength 
in the struggle for this goal. 


_SHANGHAL RELIGIOUS CIRCLES OPPOSE NEW AGGRESSION -- Skanghal Hsin-wen Jih-pao, 
T Jul 50 


The peace appeal movement has swept over the entire city, enlisting myriads . 
of devout persons who care little about politics but cherish beautiful ideals 
about a heavenly kingdom. These persons have in turn led many others to sign. 
Pastor Chen Ho-hsiang of Grace Church put it this way: "We Christians have al- 
ways stood for peace, but not mere pacificiem. When aggression becomes unbearable, 
we rise up to resist the inhuman aggressors. Just as Jesus indignantly drove the 
money-changers from the temple, we should not only sign the peace appeal, but also 
if ever an invader touches our sacred s0il, boldly drive iim out." 


At & mass meeting, on 1 July, celebrating the 29th anniversary of the found- 
ing of the Chinese Communist Party, various Christian leaders pointed out US in- 
perialism as the Chinese people's greatest enemy, and appealed to Christians to 
stress signing the peace appeal, each Jetting at least five other persons to sign. 


e 
The next day, Sunday, copies of the appeal were distributed to the churches 
to collect signatures. The YWCA and YMCA were also very active in this effort, 


3) = i 


comrmenrtat CONFIDENTIAL 


‘ 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600340706-0 


. . "| i sel 
7 ces eet eG ee ee IS Se 

Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600340706-0 

: 


a COWEN Al 


CONFIDENTIAL 50X1-HUM! 


On the afternoon of 5 July, people of all faiths gathered in a vast peace 
asaembly and after hearing powerful pleas were led in prayer for peace by Pas- 
tor Hsieh Sung-san,. 


Pastor Ch'en Ho-hsiang, vice-chairman of the Shanghai Christian Federa- 
tion, said most feelingly: "Christianity in China has been for 140 years a 
} tool of imperialism and rejected by the masses. Kow that imperialism's evil 
character has been revealed, we want to work for the welfare of our people. 
The Kuomintang led us to fear the Communists, but after Shanghai was liberated, 
living facts led us to become acquainted with the Communist Party. We can tes-. 
tify that if the whole world were as good ss the regime led by the Communist 
| Party, would not the kingdom of heaven dreamed of by Christians be already real- 
dzed on the earth? So we, wishing to preserve this lasting peace of the kingdom 
of heaven, and the happiness of good people, must boldly rise up to resist the 
brutal aggression of the imperialists. Let each of us sign the appeal to pre- 
erve peace!” 


-END- 


wae —— 


O9A00 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/17 : CIA-RDP80-008 


