Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2013/08/27 : PRR PLS Ole edema 
<a ag do ca 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


28 September 1950 . 


Document No. i ao 


NO CHANGE in Class. C] 
SUBJECT: The Korean Situation DRCUASSTPILD 
Cless. CiIANTID TO: TS s C 
[TA Memo, 4 Apr 77 
I. Military Situation Auth: DDA Doc. 


bated af? — By 
Summary 


UN forces in the Seoul area contime to climinate bitterly resisting 
enemy pockets in the northvestern outskirts of Seoul while reinforced 
enemy units halted the northward attack of US airborne treops on the 
Kimpe peninsula west of Seoul, In the sousheastern area, the enemy has 
concentrated forces in Taejon for a determined defense of that tom 
(press reports indicate the fall of the town after a bitter battle in 
the eastern approaches). ROK forces are continuing a rapid advance along 
the mountainous central and eastern front. Naval support by gunfire and 
carrier strikes contimed in the Seoul area, UN air activity was limited 
by adverse weather and the lack of suitable targets. 


MEMORANDUM 


Ground 


Although major enemy units have evacuated the city of Seoul, enemy 
pockets contimie to resist in the northern and nortiwvestern outskirts 
of the city. An enemy attack against the 7th Marine Regiment made a 
slight penetration in the northwest section of Seoul, but a US counter- 
attack later in the dey restored the pesitions. On the Kimpo peninsula 
near the Kimpo airfield, reinforced enemy units helted the northward ad- 
vanee of elements of the 187th Airborne Regiment. An enemy attack in 
battalion strength against the Suwon-Osan road was repulsed by the 3lst 
Regiment of the US 7th Division. Prisoners taken in this erigacement 
were from the North Korean 13th Division, previously reported just north 
of Taegu. 


In the expanding southeastern battle zone, a regiment of the US 
25th Division made an unopposed 20 mile sweep into southwestern Korea 
from Chinju, while other elements of that division encountered light to 
moderate resistance in a northwestern advance, The US 2nd Division con~ 
tinued to encounter sporadic resistance in its advance north and west 
of Ami. 


The US 2lyth was held up by well-emplaced eneny defenses 6 miles 
east of Taejon, indicating that the enemy is concentrating for a de- 
fense of that city (a late press report announced the fall of Taejon 
i after a bitter engagement on the eastern approaches to the cLiy). 


ARCHIVAL RECORD : 
PLEASE RETURN TO sete Ba 
AGENCY ARCHIVES CK, 
; oe ; ASSACSY 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2013/08/27 : CIA-RDP78-01617A005300010025-5 _ 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2013/08/27 : CIA-RDP78-01617A005300010025-5 
or ~ 
SECRET 
j 


Division continued to advance against light to moderate enemy resist 
ance. 


in the ROK gone of action, the ROK forces continued an almost une 
opposed sweep through the mountainous east coast sector. Reports of 
enemy fortification activities in the vicinity of Yongwol may fore~ 
shadow a more determined eneny defense in this area, 


lavy 
UL carrier aircraft supported cround troops and attacked eneny trans— 

portation facilities in the Scoul area, Fleet units vatrolled both 

coasts and reported increased enemy mining activity on the west coast. 


North and west of Taegu, the US Ist Cavalry Division and the ROK Ist 
Adverse weather and the lack of suitable targets reduced Ul corbat 

sorties to hal’ of a normal day's operations. DB~29's continued destruc= 

tion of railroad facilities in North Korea, 


It. General Situation 


The first reports of North Korean POW interrogations dealing with 
psychological matters reveal conflicting attitudes of the North Koreans 
toward UN forces and the Republic of Kerea. Some prisoners of war , 
claim that the thorough and effective Commmnist propaganda has convinced 
all North Koreans that their case is righteous and has aroused con- 
siderable antagonism toward the "foreign controlled government of the 
Republic of Korea." Other prisoners assert, however, that mary North 
Koreans are skeptical of extravagant Communist propaganda, and retain 
considerable faith in the US intentions and capabilities in Korea. 


TiRLIL 


SECRET 


i 
‘ | 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2013/08/27 : CIA-RDP78-01617A005300010025-5 pass.’ 


