11/09/14 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600350573-7 
. q 


CENTIAL 


ed Copy Approved for Release 20 


. CLASSIC THT) = CONFIDENT.UAL 
_ CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT 50X1-HUM | 
e INFORMATION FROM ; 
“h FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


COUNTRY Nortu Kores; US DATE OF 
INFORMATION 1950 


SUBJECT Political; Military (Editorial) 


HOW DATE DIST. 20 Oct 1950 


PUBLISHED Daily newspaper 


WHERE 
PUBLISHED Pyongyang NO, OF PAGES 2 


DATE 


PUBLISHED 4 Jul 1950 
SUPPLEMENT TO 


LANGUAGE Korean REPORT NO. % 


BE THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 

OF THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT SO Bd 
RB U.S ¢..31 AND 32.A5 AMENDED. ITS TRANSMISSION OR THE REVELATION I 
Be OF 115 CONTENTS IN ANY BANNER TO AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON (S PAO: 
REPROCUCTION OF THIS FORM 15 PROHIBITED. 


THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


MIBITED BY LAW. 


SOURCE Chosun_ Inmingun. 


EDITOR MAINTAINS US INTERVENTION IN KOREA DOOMED 


Syngman Rhee and his traitorous gang were instructed by the American im- 
perialists to launch an invasion of the People's Republic on 25 June. The gov- 
ernment of the People's Republic ordered the Inmingun (People's Army) and the 
Kyongbidae (Garrison Units) to repel and destroy the enemy which attacked us 
without warning. Our Inmingun and Kyongbidae have executed their honorable 
mission very satisfactorily. The Inmingun, which originated from the famous 


anti-Japanese guerrilla unit led by Gen Kim Il-song, is based on the most mod- 
ern military tactics end discipline taught by Marxiam-Leninism, and above all, 
In the current hostilities, in which the 


possesses unsurmountable patriotism. 
Inmingun was ordered to destroy the aggressors, it has full opportunity to dis- 


4 
play its bravery and capabilities before the people. { 
° ; 4 


e invasion was launched by the traitorous Syngman 
Rhee and his henchmen, instigated by the American imperialists, the Inmingun 
liberated most of the cities, towns, and villages in the southern half of the : 
People's Republic, including Seoul, aud mopped up and destroyed an absolute ! 
majority of the so-called Kukbanggun (National Defense Army), inflicting 4 de- ; : 


cisive blow to the enemy. 


* Within a week after th 


who want to colonize and enslave the southern 
control of the whole world, established 
thern half of Korea as well as other 
Then, by manipulating Rhee 
ialists fabricated 


‘ The American imperialists, 
half of Korea in their dream of winning 
military, air, and naval bases in the sou 
areas of the world in preparation for the invasion. 
and his puppet gang to launch the invasion, the American imper: 
an excuse for armed intervention in Korean affairs. 


President Truman announced on 27 June & mobilization of the US air and naval’ 
forces. But when he saw the South Korean forces being repulsed and destroyed by 
the Inmingun, Truman became jittery and, on 30 June, announced mobilization of 
US ground forces. It thus developed that, in an attempt to rescue Rhee and his 
army, which faced certain doom, the American imperialists started indiscriminate 
destruction of the peaceful cities and villages of Korea and the lives of inno- 
cent citizens, who desired peaceful unification of Korea under our auspices. 


eg BIT TVA} 
-1-  GGAPIDEN TA 


LASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL 


c . 
STATE NAVY NSRE DISTRIBUTION 1 
ARMY AIR FBI , ; 


pace OS Se Pre es aan | + ta q p -{ 4 an . ‘ eae i 
Serre . 3 oc ee 2 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/09/14 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600350573-7 
a iz 


coeweiin *  50X1-HUM } 


The strugyie of the Inmingun, necessitated by a just cause, will lead to 
total victory, while the aggreasive intervention by the American warmongers, 
motivated by vicious intentions, is destined to total defeat. The aggressors' 
armed intervention served only to stir up the indignation of the people of 
Korea, Beginning with the : tudents of the Kim Il-song University, students 
in colleges and universities throughout the northern half of the People's Re- 
public, as well as youths in factories and on farms even in the most remote 
regions, are begging to join our fighting forces at the front, ready to sacri- 

F fice their lives for the unification and sovereign independence of our father- 
of land. The number of such youths has exceeded 110,000 as of 2 duly. 


Lately, the democratic power of the people of Korea has been mobilized to 
the full extent towerd the single objective of destroying the vicious civil war 
instigator, Rhee, Lately, the American warmongers have become the object of 
intense hatred by all peace-loving peoples of the world, for the American im- 
perialists are the enemies of progressive civilization. The brave actions of 
the Inmingun, acting in the sacred mission of destroying the American aggressors 
ana the vicious capitalistic tool, Rhee, have received enthusiastic applause 
and whole-hearted support from all peace-loving democratic peoples of the world. 


We urged the American imperialists to recall the fate of the Fascists. All 
Fascist groups which recklessly challenged the power of the USSR met the same 
humiliating defeat as that of Hitler, who was the trouble maker and the most vi- 
cious of all, when they faced the solidly united power of the Soviet people and 
the heroic fighting strength of the Soviet Army. 


Similarly, the American imperialists, who are the instigators of the present 
aggression, will come face to face with the united strength of the democratic 
peoples of the world and the determined challenge of the peace-loving peoples of 
the world, if they stir up the hostile feeling of these progressive peoples. 

This irrefutable fact will inevitably lead the American imperialists to the 
same fate the Fascists met. 


| 
‘ 
: 
| 
} 
c) 
{ 


The uselessness of armed intervention by the American imperialists has 
been already demonstrated in China, where they met determined resistance by ; 
the people of that country, which led to the total failure of intervention. | 


The American imperialists supplied the Nationalist Army of the reaction- j 
ary, Chiang Kai-shek, with arms amounting to 6 billion dollars, and trained, i 
under direct supervision of the US Army, several score divisions of the Nation- , ! 
alist Army. The US air forces bombed the Chinese Liberation Army and the peo- 
ple unscrupulously. In spite of &.1 these aggressive efforts, the American 
armed intervention failed completely in the face of formiduile resistance by 
the people of China and the Chinese Liberation Army, The reactionary National- 
ist Army was chased off the Chinese mainland, and the people established the Peo- 
ple's Republic of China. 


It is a foregone conclusion that, should the American imperialists try an- 
other mischievous scheme in the Far East in their inor@inate desire to secure con- 
trol of the Far East, they will be directly confronted with stubborn resistance 
from the peoples of the Far East and the world at large, which inevitably leads 
such schemes to complete failure, The American imperialists cannot thwart our 
fervent desire to attain total unification and sovereign independence of the 
people and the fatherland of Korea, The Korean people are determined to win 
their righteous struggle. 


Fighting forces of the People's Republic: Fight most stubbornly against 
the armed intervention of the American imperialists. Be watchful of the under- 
hand designs plotted by the enemy, and stir up your animosity toward the enemy 
ever more, Show heroism and bravery in your war of justice against the traitor- 
ous Syngman Rhee and his henchmen who work as the tools of the American imperi- 
alists, These traitors you must destray, Long live the Democratic People's Re- 
public of Korea which besieges and destroys the aggressors for the benefit of the 
people of Korea: 


-END- 
aus 
CONFIDENTIAL 


