ae 
iE 


CHINESE:N 


“SC COPY'NO. 
ASSISTANT DIR 
F FOR 


NTELLIGENCE: EST IMAT 


“Declassiied by 


date «. 2. AUG ‘srt: 


Doclassified ky ..o0 00 2 -na ae. = 


date awake “AVE IVE. Ah 


DISSEMINATION NOTICE 


1. This copy of this publication is for the information and use of the recipient 
designated on the front cover and of individuals under the jurisdiction of the recipient’s 
office who require the ‘nformation for the performance of their official duties. Further 
dissemination elsewhere in the department to other cffices which require the infarma- 
tion for the performance of official duties may be authorized by the fellowing: 

a, Special Assiscant to tue Secretary of State for Intelligence, for the Depart- 
ment of State 

b, Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, for the Department of the Army 

ec. Director of Naval Intelligence, for the Department of the Navy 

d, Director of Intelligerce, USAF, for the Department of the Air Force 

e. Director of Intelligence, AEC, for the Atomic Energy Commission 

f. Deputy Director for IntelHigence, Joint Staff, for the Joint Staff 

g. Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA, for any other 
Department or Agency ; 


2. This copy may be either retained or destroyed by burning in accordance with 
applicable security regulations, or returned to the Central Intelligence Agency by ar- 
rangement with the Office of Collection and Dissemination, CIA. 


DISTRIBUTION (NIE Series): 

Office of the President 

National Security Counci? i 
National Securlty Resources Board : 
Department of State } 
Office of Secretary of Defense 

Department of the Army 


Department of the Navy a a. 

Department of the Air Force Declassified by O58 215 

Atomic Energy Commission : Ce ew, 
date ...% AUG 1977 


Joiat Chiefs of Stafi 

Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Research and Development Board 
Munitions Board 


own ae etal TLS ST 


NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE 


CONSEQUENCES OF THE EARLY EMPLOYMENT 
OF CHINESE NATIONALIST FORCES IN KOREA 


NIE-12 


Py) 1 eee 


The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, 
the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force participated in the 
preparation of this estimate, and State, Army, and Navy 
concur in it. A dissent by the intelligence organization 
of the Department of the Air Force is appended as an annex. 
This paper is based on information available on 23 December. 


peeertemen nem en 


fae RRS SA as sige 


CONSEQUENCES OF THE EARLY EMPLOYMENT 
OF CHINESE NATIONALIST FORCES 
IN KOREA 


ASSUMPTION: That hostilities have not spread beyond the porders of Korea at the time of 
a decision to empivy Chinese Nationalist forces in Korea.* 


1. The Chinese Nationalists have offered a 
task-force of 33,000 troops for service in Korea 
and possibly could provide a greater number 
without jeopardizing the security of Taivan. 
Nationalist troops have undergone extensive 
and prolonged training, put due to inept lead- 
ership and poor living conditions there is some 
question of their morale. The majority of 
Nationalist troops on Taiwan have come from 
the more temperate zones of China, and a con- 
tingent for Korea probably would require 
training and some re-equipment before being 
committed to combat in cold-weather opera- 
tions. In other respects, the initial Nation- 
alist contingent for Korea would be well- 
equipped and could be transported to Korea 
in fourteen days. The Nationalist troops are 
experienced and familiar with Chinese Com- 
munist tactics, Nationalist units should per- 
form comparatively efficiently under good 
leadership and adequate supervision, but 
might be susceptible to Communist prop- 
aganda and suffer a svostantial number of 
defections if permitted to operate independ- 
ently in areas beyond the immediate tactical 
control of UN commanders. 


2. The presence or ths absence of Chinese Na- 
tionalist troops in Korea in the limited num- 
bers estimated to be available within the im- 
mediate future would not be a major factor 
affecting the ability of UN forces to establish 


*Note: This estimate considers only the conse- 
quences of the fmmediate employment of Chinese 
Wationalist troops in Korea in the present situation 
and does not deal with the consequences of eventual 
employinent of Chinese Nationalist troops either 
in Korea, in later and changed circumstances, or 
on the Chinese mainland as part of a larger under- 
taking. An estimate (NIE-10) is in preparation on 
the more general question. 


and hold a defensive line across the peninsula 
against numerically vastly superior Chinese 
Communist forces. 


3. If a protracted defense of a beachhead is 

undertaken, the presence of Chinese Nation- 

alist forces could make a substantial contribu- . 
tion, provided they were operating under good 

leadership anc adequate supervision. 


4. Whatever the military outcome in Korea, 
the employment of Chinese Nationalists there 
would, in the eyes of other nations, further 
identify the US with the Chinese Naticnalists 
and would constitute a moral commitment for 
continuing US support of the Chinese Na- 
tionalist regime. In addition, the employ- 
ment of Chinese Nationalist forces in. Korea 
would immediately raise difficult problems 
involving the feasibility of continuing the US 
policy of neutralization of Taiwan, particu- 
larly with respect to the employment of Na- 
tionalist naval and air forces other than in 
Korea and in Korean waters. 


5. A majority of UN nations would probably 
reject a US proposal to use Chinese Nation- 
alist troops in Korea. There is a general 
apprehension that the employment of Chinese 
Nationalist troops in Korea would give im- 
petus or at least provide the pretext for in- 
creased militancy on the part of Communist 
China. This militancy would ‘increase the 
¢canger of a general war with Communist 
Uhina, which in turn might develop into a 
global war. In add.tion, the Western Euro- 


pean nations would feel strongly that the DS 
was jeopardizing the first-priority task of 
defense of the European continent by becom- 
ing involved in protracted hostilities in Asia. 
The employment of the Chinese Nationalists 
would alienate other Asiatic countries, which 


Seay 


consifer the Chinese Nationalists to be re- 
actionary, politically incompetent, and al- 
ready repudiated by their own people. Uni- 
lateral US action in using Chinese Nationalist 
troops would intensify these feelings. 


6. The use of Chinese Nationalist troops in 
Korea would remove whatever chance might 
yemain of @ political solution of the Korean 
conflict. Although it is evident that Com- 
munist China strongly supports general 
Soviet strategic objectives, this support might 


become even stronger as a result of the use 
of Chinese Nationalist forces in Korea, 


7. The USSR would probcbly welcome a uni- 
lateral US decision to use Chinese Nationalist 
troops in Korea as: (a) further embroiling 
the US in hostilities with Communist China 
without engaging the USSR; (b) dividing the 
US from its allies; and {c) providing plaus- 
ibility for international Communist propa- 
ganda concerning alleged US military aggres- 
sions and support of reactionary regimes. 


ee Se nN | MARTA RS RR MG ER RES 


oo cn EEN RET ET RAT PT OER SCHERER ORREEDDDSO” ST NATERDNTIT ETNA nN te TN are pagans pp mar oi Ee A ERE 


Po wo 


ANNEX 


1. The Director of Intelligence, U.S.A.F., dis- 
sents in NIE-12. 


2. In general, this estimate has emphasized 
the military and political disadvantages of the 
employment of Chinese Nationalist forces in 
Korea, and has failed to point out adequately 
the advantages which would accrue to the 
US.-U.N. campaign in Korea by the use of 
such forces. Specific points are as follows: 


a. The discussions in this paper appear to 
have been governed by the acceptance of ap- 
proximately 33,000 Nationalist troops as being 
essentially the total number available for 
employment in Korea. This office estimates 
this number to be far less than the total 
available. 


b. The estimate does not give sufficient con- 
sideration to the fact that Chinese Nation- 
alist Forces offer the only readily available 
foree for major augmentation of U.N. forces 
in Korea. In fact, such imsufficient consid- 
eration fails to give planners grounds for 
looking upon the availability of these forces 
as a factor influencing the determination as 
to whether or not a beachhead should be held 
at all. 


c. Introduction of a large number of Chi- 
nese Nationalist troops could make a sub- 
stantial contribution by providing much- 
needed infantry to the U.S.-U.N. campaign in 
Korea, if a beachhead were retained. 


ad. This office does not believe that the re- 
actions of all the various Asiatic nations to 
the employment of Nationalist traops in 
Korea can be assessed with sufficient accuracy 
to warrant the conclusion that these Asiatic 
nations will be irrevocably opposed to the 
utilization of these anti-communist forces. 
In this respect, more deference is paid in this 
paper to the attitudes of the governments, or 
majorities in the respective countries, than ta 
the elements which fully recognize the Com- 
munist menace and would be encouraged by 


this new opposition to Communism’s advance. 
It is not beyond the bounds of possibility that 
even in Europe, public opizion might learn to 
applaud firm opposition, whether it be in 
Europe or in Asia, and in fact might prefer 
the fight to be made in Asia. 


e. The estimate indicates that the use of 
Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea would 
eliminate any remaiuing chance of an imme- 
diate political solution of the Korean con- 
flict. This dissent in no way is intended to 
contradict this conclusion. However, it ap- 
pears to this oifice that the law of diminish- 
ing returns has set in with respect to the prob- 
ability of a satisfactory immediate political 
conclusion. The discussion in the paper does 
not warrant a sound conclusion as to whether 
or not utilization of Nationalist troops would 
prejudice or aid an eventual political solution. 


3. ‘The estin.ate implies that the employment 
of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea would 
give impetus to, or provide the pretext for, 
increased militancy on the part of Commu- 
nist China. It is reasonable that any in- 
crease in militancy, if such is possible (other 
than against Hong Kong), would be gov- 
erned more by Chinese military capabilities 
and their own time-table than by any provo- 
cation which might result from the employ- 
ment of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea. 


4. There appears to be insufficient data to 
justify the conclusion in paragraph 7 of this 
estimate that “the USS would probably wel- 
come a unilateral U.S. decision to use Chinese 
Nationalist troops in Korea.” 


5. This office would revise NIE-12 as indicated 
belew: 


a. Reference p. 1, par. 2. Revise as follows: 
“phere igs no immediate crisis in Korea re- 
quiring Chinese Nationalist troops to prevent 
a disaster, but this opportunity to begin the 
dynami: exploitation of any anti-Communist 
jorces whose commitment could have a favor- 


4 oer: 


able effect on the Korean and possibly the 
entire For Eastern situation should be given 
careful consideration. The Chinese Nationul- 


ist forces on Formosa provide the only visible 
means for such exploitation. The pt 


absence of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea 


able within the immediate near future and 
later would net be an important a-raajer fac- 
tor affecting the ability of UN forces to estab-~ 
lish and hold a defensive line across the 
peninsula against numerically vastly superior 
Chinese Communist forces, untess the US-UN 
introduced reinforcements directly.” 


b. Reference p. 1, par. 3. Add at end of 
paragraph as follows: “An important require- 
ment in Korea is for additional infantry. By 
using Nationalist infantry as @ screening 
force, present UN forces in Korea could be 
used more effectively as a striking force. The 
defense of &@ beachhead requires a mobile re- 
serve which can counterattack quickly at the 
points of greatest enemy pressure.” 


ce. Reference par. 4. Amend first sentence 
and add a new sentence as follows: “Whatever 
the military outcome in Korea, the employ- 
ment of Chinese Nationalists there would, in 
the eyes of certain other nations at the present 
time, further identify the US with the Chinese 
Nationalists and would constitute a degree of 
moral commitment for continuing US support 
of the Chinese Nationalist regime. At the 
same time this act would identify U.S. inten- 
tions to utilize enti-Communist forces within 
its capabilities, and as such might have @ posi- 
tive psychological effect of potentially great 


value upon. anti-Communist forces.” 


d. Reference par, 5. Revise as follows: At 
the present time a majority of UN nations 
would probably reject a US proposal to use 
Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea. There 
is a general apprehension that the empioy- 
ment of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea, 
would give impetus, or at least provide the 
pretext, for increased militancy on the part of 
Communist China. Despite the repeated as- 
surance of the US-UN to respect the Man- 
churian borders and the maintenance of the 
embargo against Chinese Nationalist opera- 
tions on the mainland, Chinese Communist 


militancy has already reached a high level in 
committing. the Fourth Field Army, which 
represents the bext available Chinese Com- 
munist military force. Itis difficult to see any 
new form. which this militancy could take 
(other than in Hong Kong). ‘Pais-miiteney 
would—inerease Therefore, there probably 
would be little increase in the danger of a gen- 
eral war with Communist China, which danger 
; a_yaicht dexelea-i iepal al- 
ready exists. This, too, probably will have 
little direct effect upon the development of a 
global war. At least in the beginning, the 
Western European nations would might feel 
strongly that the US was jeopardizing the 
first-priority task of defense of the European 
continent by pecoming-involved a continued 
involvement in protracted hostilities in Asia. 
Later however, they might come to appreciate 
the determination of the US to take construc- 
tive action in an area of vital importance in 
the struggle against Soviet directed Commu- 
nist aggression. The employment of the 
Chinese Nationalists would might alienate 
those element in certain other Asiatic coun- 
tries, which who consider the Chinese Nation- 
alists to be reactionary, polit‘cally incompe- 
tent, and already repudiated by their own peo- 
ple. On the other hand, the employment of 
the Chinese anti-Communist forces could 
hearten the anti-Communist elements of all 
Asiatic countries and increase their will to re- 
sist Cominunist aggression. i 
would-intensify_thesefeelings. In addition if 
the other nations should determine that ié is 
necessary to make a stand in Korea, they will 
be more amenable when they recognize this 
as a method of relieving them of the necessity 
of providing more jarces themselves.” 


e. Reference par. 6. Amend as follows: “At 
a time of delicate negotiations the use of Chi- 
nese Nationalist troops in Koreasveuid rerieve 
aghatever-change might remab of might have 
prejudiced an immediate political solution of 
the Korean conflict deriving from those nego- 
tiations. it-is-evi $ : 

sgt Chi 5 tse svi 


qe 5 


would not necessarily have precluded, how- scale is already a fact, and an immediate | 
ever, a@ later political settlement. It was, political solution deriving from present nege- i 
therefore, important that a decision to use  tiations now appears to have reached a point 
Nationalist troops be deferred until the prob- of diminishing returns. 
abilities of obtaining an scceptable immedi- f. Reference par. 7. Delete entire para- 
ate political solution were gone. Hewever, graph: “Fhe-USSR-weuld- probably welreme-6 
Chinese Communist intervention on a massive 4 


i 
| 


” 
Dy 


