* f 


Sanitized Copy Reproves for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600360607-8 


i” ~ T 
CLASSIFICATION conrrpemeza, GONFIDENTIAL 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY - REPORT 50X1-HUM 


INF:SRMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS . CD NO, 


COUNTRY Korea DATE OF 


INFORMATION 2950 
SUBJECT Political;. Military 


HOW. DATE DIST. y Dec 1950 
PUBLISHED Semimonthly periodical 


WHERE 
PUBLISHED Moscow NO. OF PAGES 


DATE 
PUBLISHED Aug 1950 

SUPPLEMENT TO 
LANGUAGE = Russian REPORT NO. 


(ae 


; Tuts DOCUMENY CONTAINS INFORWATION AFFECTING THE WATIONAL DEFENSE E 
OF THE UNITEO STATES MN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT IO 
¥. 8. C.. STAND 


TRANSMISSION Of Tus AvRLATION THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


A . iT 
ONTENTS IR ART Tm WAUTHORIZED Lat 
SMISITED BY Law, FORD |S PROMINITEO. 


SOURCE Bol'!shevik, Vol XXVII; No 15, 1950. 


THE KOREAN PEOPLE IN THE STRUGGLE 
FOR UNIFICATION AND INDEPENDENCE 
EEE EEE ENDENCE 


V. Mikheyev 


Five years ago, on 15 August 1945, the heroic Soviet. Army jihaving: de~ 
stroyed the Kwantung Army, freed the Korean people from Japanese slavery. 
The Korean people greet the fifth anniversary of their liberation under 
very trying conditions, as they selflessly defend the independence of 
their native land and resolutely struggle for the realization of their 
deepest desire -- the creation of a united, independent, democratic 
Korea. 


'.» This 1s the second month that war has flamed across the fields of 
Korda, a war that is Open aggression by the American imperialists who 
would turn Korea into an American colony. 


The threat of the spread of a colonial order such as thet produced 
. by the Americans in South Korea ) the common desire of the Korean people 
for the unity of their land, and the hatred of the people for the invad~ 
ers have all helped to produce a tremendous political uprieing of the 
masses who, united around the government of the People's Republic, are 
‘carrying on a daring struggle for their national independence. 


Weary from 40 years of Japanese oppression, the Korean people greeted 
their Soviet liberators with rejoicing. With enthusiasm they proceeded to 
liquidate the remains of the Japanese colonial regime. - 


The Korean people xound open before them a new path, a path of na- 
tional renaissance and free, democratic development. On 6 September 1945, 
in Seoul, the capital of Korea » More than 1,000 representatives of peo~ 
ple's committees, democratic parties, and other social organizations of 
the land met in the first congress of people's delegates. This broadly 
representative convention met to decide the fate of the nation. It estab- 
lished a.republic and chose a Central Republic People's Committee consist- 

. ing of representatives of various parties and organizations. T+ planned 
“ @ broad program of democratic reforms » including agrarian reform, national~ 
ization of the property of Japanese monopolies, revival of Korean culture, 
etc. ‘ 


a 


_SLASSIFICATION CONF IDENTTAT, ONFIDENTIAL 
wore TT bistrieurion ] 


1 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600360607-8 _ 


s 
* 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 - CIA-RDP80-00809A000600360607-8 


r | 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


50X1-HUM 


However, not all the Korean people were able to enjoy freedom from 
the Japanese yoke. The population of South Korea found itself in a new 
imperialistic bondage, having come under the control of American colonial- 
ists. 


The US has broken all the promises it made concerning the assistance 
it would give the Korean people to create an independent and democrat'c 
government. The temporary division of the country along the 38th parallel, 
made to facilitate the disarming of Japanese troops, was used by the US 
for the creation of a real political boundary, after the US had set up 
the reactionary southern government and prevented the unification of the 
country. 


The northern part of the country proceeded along the path of free , 
and democratic development. The policy of the USSR fasiliated this more 
than anything else. While striving for a unified and independent Korea 
and defending the right of the Korean people to an independent existence, 
the Soviet Union did not interfere in the internal affairs of the coun- 
try and demanded the same of other nations. Many facts testify to this. 
The Soviet Union, in talks with the US » and in the UN, repeatedly pro- 
posed that foreign troops be withdrawn from Korea and that the Korean 
people be given the right to decide their own fate. As is well known, 
the US rejected all these proposals and in May 1948 set up a puppet re- 
gime in Seoul. 


In August 1948, on the initiative of 70 social organizations of 
north and south, elections to the Supreme People's Assembly of the Peo- 
ple's Republic were held. In North Korea, 99.97 percent of all elig-ble 
voters took part in free elections. In South Korea, despite terrorist 
activity, 77.52 percent of all those eligible voted. The government of 
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea » headed by Kim Il-song, was 
formed as a result of these elections, It is the sole iegal government 
of Korea, and is now fighting to free the country from ite oppressors. 


At the request of the North Korean government » the Soviet Union was 
the first to establish diplomatic relations » and in December 1948 with- 
drew its troops from North Korea. On 17 March 1949 a lO~year agreement . 
for economic and cultural cooperation was signed by the USSR and North 
Korea. 


During the last 5 years, North Korea has been very successful in 
introducing a number of reforms and in creating conditions for the rapid 
development of the nation's economy and culture. The law on agrarian 
reform provided for the distribution of land to about 725,000 farm la- 
borers, landless peasants, and small landholders » at the expense of former 
Japanese colonialists and Korean gentry. Banks, transport, and basic in- 
dustries were nationalized. The national economy of North Korea was pros- 
pering. By 1948, the gross output of all production had more than doubled. 
The 2-year plan for restoration and development of the people's economy 
was being fulfilled. The 1949 plan was fulfilled 103 percent. Agricul- 
tural production increased. In the dry year of 1949, the harvest was 30 
percent larger than it had been in 194}. Unemployment was eliminated; 
the number of workers was almost twice what it had been in the first days 
of the republic. The workers! Standard of living was. rising. 


Particularly impressive are the successes in the cultural field. 
In a period of 5 years, illiteracy among adults was all but wiped out. 
In 1945, 80 percent of the population could neither read nor write. 
Sixteen institutions of higher learning were established, training more 
than 10,000 students. Fifty-five technical schools and 131 factory tech- 
nical schools are in operation. About 2 million children are in school. 


- 2.4 
CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


ee he pay 


Sanitized Copy / 


py Approved for R , 7/22 - CIA-RDP80-00809 


Se a . 7: re ae “ 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP80-008094000600360607-8 
7 4 
CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


50X1-HUM 


This year compulsory primary education is being introduced. The publica- ) 
tion of literature in Korean has been undertaken. The works of the found- 

éres of Marxism, of Stalin, and of Lenin are being published. Natinal art 

has experienced a rebirth: theaters, groups of amateurs, dance troupes, 

and musical groups are all active. 


The achievements of North Korea inspired the entire people in a 
decisive struggle for unification of their land. In bringing about mili- 
tary operations, the reactionaries intended to destroy the power of the 
People's Republic in the northern half of the country and extend their 
terroristic regime throughcut all Korea. The failure of this plan has 
shown again how deep are the revolutionary changes that have taken place 
in the North and how closely the people are united around their republican 
government and Labor Party, under the leadership of that outstanding demo- 
crat, Kim Il-song. 


In contrast to the policy of the Soviet Union, which is inspired by 
a deep respect for the sovereigntywf all peoples, US policy has created 
a new slavery in South Korea, the liquidation of national independence, 
police terror, mass murders, and a civil war, and has resulted in direct 
imperialist aggression. 


The American imperialists consider Korea primarily as a base on the 
Asiatic continent for colonial expansion. Arriving in Korea on 8 September 
1945, almost a month: after the liberation, the Americans abolished all re- 
forms that had been introduced, disbanded the people's committees, and re- 
vived the Japanese colonial administration, including the police. 


The Americans. created a true police state. The puppet government was 
headed by the protege of American monopolists, Syngman Rhee, who had spent 
the last 30 years in the US. . ; 


; MacArthur's staff opended its campaign against Korean people's or- 
ganizations immediately after the entry of American troops into Korea. 
Toward the end of 1945, an order "On the preservation of order" was is- 
sued; early in 1946 another "On the regulation of political parties" was 
published. These orders prohibited any legal activity by Korean patriotic 
organizations. Not satisfied with these police measures, on 27 March 1947 
MacArthur's staff ordered the arrest of the entire Central Committee of the 
South Korean Labor Party, as well as the central committees of the All-Korea 
Federation of Labor Unions, the Farmers' Union, Democratic Youth Party, and 

: the Democratic Front for Unification of the Fatherland. In one ‘month, 12,000 

4 members of the national-liberation movement were imprisoned. Tens of thou- 

; sands suffered beatings and arrest. Many disappeared without leaving a 
trace. During the past.5 years, more than 150,000 suffered death at the 
hands of the fascists, and about 500,000 were arrested. 


The police terror was accompanied by the militarization of South Korea. 
Acting on an order from MacArthur's staff, the -puppet government instituted 
universal military service and proceeded to construct strategic highways. 

A large South Korean Army, equipped with American arms, was trained with 

the assistance of American advisers and instructors. American divisions 

stood ready in Japan and on other islands near Korea. New airfields were 

constructed and old ones were enlarged. The airfields at Suwon, Taejon, 

: Seoul, and Pusan were enlarged to handle American heavy boabers and jet 

“ fighters. A new naval base was constructed near Pusan. Of a total budget 
of 58 billion won in 1949, the South Morean puppet government assigned 30 
billion for military spending. This does not include American loans and 
credit. 


- 3.- d 
CONFIDENTIAL 4 


- CONFIDENTIAL 


eon ep ieee ey ars 4 ms cas 


IM Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP80-008094000600360607-8 


"Sa 


r 


nit 


ize 


att 


d Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP80-00809 


CONFIDENT IAL 


The masses of South Korea never made peace with Syngman Rhee. Their 
protests against the creation of this puppet government by the Americans 
finally led to a revolt. The rebels demanded the abolition of the puppet 
government and the unification of the country under the flag of the Peo- 
ple's Republic. This revolt strerigthened the partisan movement in South 
Korea. Tens of thousands of Koreans took up arms, and liberated regions 
appeared in the mountains. Partisan elements carried out raids on rail- 
roads, military dumps, and police headquarters and set many prisoners 
free. Punitive expeditions did not break the determination of the Korean 
people. The reactionaries were unable to crush the partisan movemer*. 

At present, the partisans are rendering great assistance to the advanc- 
ing People's Army, and are operating behind the lines of the American 
occupiers. 


The attempt to weaken popular opposition by holding new elections 
to the puppet "National Assembly" in May 1950 was a failure. Many of 
the representatives of the Syngman Rhee clique were defeated. One hun- 
dred and sixty-two deputies opposed to Syngman Rhee were elected to the 
National Assembly, despite the fact that just before the election more 
than 100 candidates not acceptable to the Americans and their followers 
were arrested. Such an outcome of "elections" arranged by the Americans 
demonstrated the strength of the people's hatred for the Americans. The 
demand for peaceful unification with the North became louder and more 
insistent. Early this summer the situation in South Korea became criti~- 
cal for the puppet government and its American protectors. 


The political instability of the Syngman Rhee regime was increased 
by the deteriorating economic situation. Land under cultivation had de- 
creased by 45 percent. Industry lay idle; production was scarcely 20 
percent of the prewar level. Unemployment had reached the colossal fig- 
ure of more than 3 million, out of a total population of 18 million. 
More than 500,000 homeless, hungry people roamed the streets in search 
of shelter and food. Uncontrolled inflation increased the impoverish~ 
ment of the pecdple. Prices were 1,000 times higher than before the war. 
The peasants sabotaged the forced contribution of rice and other foods. 


In June 1950, the democratic organizations of North and South Korea 
expressed the wishes of the masses by demanding that an all-Korean can- 
paign for peaceful unification of the country be undertaken. This pro- 
posal was taken under consideration by the Central Committee of the DFUF 
(Democratic Front for Unification of the Fatherland), which represents 
70 organizations from both north and south, with an over-all membership 
of 10 million. On 8 June, the Central Committee of the DFUF published 
an appeal to all democratic ‘parties and public organizations. to all 
the people of Korea, proposing that a meeting be heid in mid-June in 
one of the towns on the 38th Parallel to discuss means for unifying 
the country. It was also proposed that elections be held early in 

. August throughout all of Korea in order that. the first meeting of the 
Supreme organ of power might be held in Seoul in 15 August 1950, the 
fifth anniversary of the liberation. This supreme organ of power was 
to form a national government and thus unification would be achieved. 


This proposal of the DFUF evoked a warm response from the people 
of South Korea, whose hope in their imminent liberation from the re- 
actionary regime of Syngman Rhee and his American masters was now 
strengthened. The reactionaries, in answer to the proposal, began 
mass arrests and murders. The number of South Korean troops on the 
38th Parallel increased, as did the number of "border" incidents 
provoked by them. A state of emergency was proclaimed throughout all 
of South Korea. Syngman Rhee and his American masters were obviously 
preparing to attack North Korea. 


eee 
CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


/22 - CIA-RDP80-00809A0 


000600 


a 


0060 


360607-8 


7 


50X1-HUM 


60607-8 


bcm te at lll cr 


‘Saniized Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600360607-8 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 50X1-HUM 


On 25 June 1950, South Korean troops attacked the territory of 


North Korea. The civil war, provoked by the American imverialists » had 
begun, , 


American armed forces intervened on the 
reactionary regime as soon as the Sout: 
The aggressors tried to attach the blame for starting the war to the Peo- 
ple's Republic. This attempt was, however, a complete failure. There are 
a large number of facts showing that the American imperialists had care- 
fully prepared for this aggression in Korea beforehand. As early as July 
1949, the US government had delivered 110 million dollars’ worth of arms 
to the Syngman Rhee government. This included 140,000 rifles » antitank 
guns, howitzers, mortars, trucks, cartridges, shells, and other equip- 
ment, sufficient to arm a tremendous army. In 1949, under the direction 


of American advisors ) the Syngman Rhee army carried out maneuvers near 
the 38th Parallel. 


side of the South Korean 
h Korean Army began to lose battles, 


The former minister of internal affairs of the Syngman Rhee "goy- 
ernment," Kim Hyo-sok; the former conmender in chief of the South Korean 
Army, Song Ho-song; 48 deputies of the "National Assembly,” and a number 
of officers and soldiers have stated that the attack on North Korea was 
planned as early as 15 duly 1949. This attack was frustrated by the de- 
fection to the People's Republic of several battalions of South Korean 


troops and by the tremendous growth of the partisan movement in the south- 
ern provinces, 


In .the course of the fighting, the People's Army has obtained a number 
of incriminating documents abandoned by the reactionaries during their flight. 
These documents are military maps, reports, and orders. They all show how 
carefully the lackeys of American imperialism prepared for the invasion of 
North Korea, on orders from their American masters. Members of the illegally 
created "UN Commission for Korea" left a number of documents in Seoul: testi- 
fying to the fact that the preparation of an unprovoked attack on North Ko- Y 
rea in 1948 went on with the knowledge of this “commission.” It is also 


known that the Amevican army in Japan had been on a war footing since au. 
tumn 1949, 


The successes of the People's Army of Korea can be e 
the high moral and political spirit of its soldiers, 
& just cause -- independence of their native land. 1T 
enjoys the support of the broad masses of the Korean 
unity of army and people has evoked fear and malice 
interventionists, who have begun to follow a cruel a 
earth policy; they have burned down scores of villag 


the zone of military operations but in the territory 
They have forced the entire 


in depth. American planes hi 
BY sands of incendiary bombs on 
of military operation. 


xplained first by 
who are fighting for 
he liberation army 
population. This 
among the American 

nd criminal scorched- 
es not only within 
they have evacuated, 
population out of an area 20-30 kilometers 
ave droppped heavy demolition bombs and thou- 
peaceful villages and towns far from areas 


The criminal actions of the American imperialists have strengthened 
the hatred of the Korean people for them. Neither bombing nor threats 
of the atomic bomb can break their will. The answer to American aggres- 
sion was the application for enlistment of 800,000 yourig Koreans in the 
People's Army. Throughout the whole country the collection of funds for 
tanks and planes continues. The population has created a voluntary fund 
of supplies for the army. Labor competition has grown apace. Tens of” 
thousands of partisans and volunteers in South Korea have joined the ad- 


vancing People's Army. In the liberated territories, democratic reforms 


have been undertaken. These include the revival of people's committees, 
agrarian reform, opening of factories and mills, and the rebirth of demo- 
cratic organizations. , 


-5- 
CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP 


j Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/07/22 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600360607-8 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONPLDEND TAL. 50X1-HUM 


The week of active solidarity with the heroic Korean people that 
has been observed in many countries of the world, as well as the con- 
tinuing campaign under the slogan’ “Hands Off Korea;"’ has inspired the 
Korean patriots. The sons of Korea, confidently and selflessly fight- 
ing for their independence » have shown, as did the Chinese people be- 
fore them, that the strength of the people is unconquerable and that 
the intentions of the warmongers are doomed to failure because the 
people want peace. American intervention in Korea has stepped up 
the campaign for the collection of signatures.for the Stockholm Peace 
Appeal on the outlawing of atomic weapons. More than 273 million signa- 
tures have been collected to date. This is a condemnation of the crin- 
‘inal! aggression by American imperialism and a terrible warning to the 
inciters of a new world war. 


- e3 
CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


eantized Copy Raareved for Ralease 201 1/07/22 CIA RDP8O- CO80SA00080: ) 


