5 ffice of Intelligenca Resear RACES 
NS Fy anctian nbem ea Fossa 2001/08/31 : CIA- roproroldtn 300050003-9 AE? 


“ December &, 1950. SECRET 
| it W/E x2 


ESTIMATE OF THR CONSEQUENCES OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF 
CHINESE NATIONALIST FC NATIST FORCES IN KOREA 
ASSUMPTION: That hostilities have not apiead beyond the boriers of Korea 
at the time of a decision to employ Chinese Nationalist forces 


in Korea. Gecument No, —____. 
, Review of this documant by GIA hes 


. | dotarmingd that geal 
medi: ons: ‘A has no sbjection to decla 
A dmedtute | gtete Military Consequences oA contains injormation of SIA 
interest that must remain 
classified at TS $ 


Authority: HR 70-2 
C) It contains nothing of GIA Interest 


il. Politicul and Strutegic Consequences nate 2/2/El . Reviewer 29.760 


A. Chances of UN Support of Employment of Chinese Netionaliste 
The United States would have little prospect of gaining UN 


support for a proposal to use Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea since 
a majority of the nations involved would be opposed, first, on the gtonnia 
thet such a move would increase markedly the danger of general war, and, 
secondly, because of opposition to giving the support to Chiang K‘ai-shek 
thet guch & move would imply. (For individual country Yeactions see 
below, ) 
3. Effect of Unilateral Us Euployment of Chinese Nationalists 
i. Effect on UN and NATO Countries 
A unilateral move by the United States would undoubtedly intensify 

the current feoling in ths UN, particularly in Britain and France, that 
Western European views are not being given eufficiest Weight on lesues 
felt to be crucial in averting full age scale war. The Western European 

| powers, MOE C IEE, would feel atrongly ‘that the US was further Joopardizing 
the defense of the European Goat nent o- to which they believe first 


priority should be given == = becoming increasingly involved in Jong 


drawn out ho:tilities in Aela. In the case of Franco, opposition to the 
State Pape declassification & LIRAREINSKUGHORS OBAlBscoosc0cs. 9° 


SECRET 


Approved For Release 2001/08/31 : Se eee ee 
A ape 


uee of Chinese Nationalist forces would be further bolstered by fears 
leat such action encourage the Chinese Communists to increase their 
Present aesistance to Ho chi Minh while the United Kingdom would similarly 
feel apprehensions concerning Chinese Commnist moves with regard to 
Malaya and Hongkong. 

Australia and New 7ealend would ahare the apprehenelions of the 
Weatern Huropean novers that ths United States was moving in a direction 
likely to Baeoie general hostilities, but might nevertheless aupport 
the US ‘aise since these countrles are leas hopeful than the European 
powers of the possibility of agreement with the Chinege Communists and 
feel their strategic interests to ba directly and closely affected by 
developments on the Asiatic continent. 

2. Effect_on Other Asian Countries 

Of the Asian powers, only the Philippines would aopacte 
unconditionally, Thailand, although continuing to support the US effort 
in Korea, would be extremely uneasy with regard both to tha prospects 
of extending the war and to supporting Chiang and would be likely to 
attempt to disassociate itself from the uso of Nationalist troops, 
propably by refraining from any official cament on the matter. Japan 
would feel barred by its occupied status fran ckiticism of the move 
but Japanege leaders privately would tend to feel thet the possible military 
advantages would be outweighed by the resultant weakening of UN unity and 
the enhanced risk of general hostilities. Pakistan's attitude would be 
ambivalent: on the one hand » internal political considerations would 
probably force the goverment to avoid public commitment an the question? 
on the other, government leaders would feel privately that militarily i 


MOVE Wat LOBLEa GPReiete! $60 biee31 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000300050003-9 
SECRET 


Approved ForRglease 2001/08/31 : CIA-RDP79R0101¢A900300050003-9 
SECRET 


ah 


Elsewhere in Asia, sentiment would be decisively against the 
United States move as providing a pretext for increasingly militant 
Chinese Commnist activities end closing all possible di@lomatic channels; 
undemining the UN and. the collective intereste of Agia by unilateral 
decision; and paving bupport to what Agiaticsgenerally regard as a 
“‘yeact onary and incompetent clique already repudiated by ite own people. 
In Asiatic countries with large Chinese communities, the fear of internal 
consequences would be strong, since it would be anticipated that US use 
of Nationalist troops would cause some hitherto neutral or lukewarm 
overseas Chinese to align themselves definitely with the Communiste. 

Hostile reactiona would be particularly strong in India where 
indeed the government would probably use its opposition to unilateral US 
employment of Nationalist troops as a pretext for digassocilating iteeif 
entirely from the UN action in Korea. Reactions of similar intensity could 
probably be anticipated in Burmese and Indonesia. 

In Indochina ‘both the French and the local population would 
regard the move as increasing the danger of Chinese Commnist invasion 
while, among the local population, propaganda claims that the US supports 


the reactionary eleusnte of the Far East would be given additional evidence. 


SECRET 


Approved For Release 2001/08/31 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000300050003-9 


Approved For Bglease 2001/08/31 BEPRYEDP79RQ1012A900300050003-9 
3. Effects on Chinese Nationalists 

Chiang K*ai-shek and his supporters would welcoms the opportunity to 
employ Nationalist troops in Korea as providing them once again with a 
foothold on the mainland; enhancing the status of Nationalist China as 
a member in full standing of the UN; and minimizing the possibility, at 
least for the present, of an alteration of the status of Taiwan. 

The use of Nationalist troops in Korea could be accomplished 
expeditiously only by full recognition of Chiang’s authority over them. 
Chiang’s leadership would thereby be reinforced; the pressure of a 
pending UN investigation that seems to have been responsible for such 
reforms as the KMT has made to date would be substantially diminished; 
younger and more progressive KiT elements who hoped for a thorough going 
revitalization of Nationalist leadership would be correspondingly dis 
heartened; while a large proportion of the Taiwanese would lose all] 
hope that UN action would either remove the authority of the EM? or else 
force the KMT to undertake reforms in the direction of making the 
government more responsive to the aspirations and needs of the people 
of Taiwan. 

Furthermore, our acceptance of Nationalist troops for use in Korea 
would enable Chiang to put increased pressure on the US for aid and encourage 
him to seek to hold the US responsible for undertaking the support, 
equipping, and effective use against the Communists of all the Nationalist 
armed forces. 


SECRET 


Approved For Release 2001/08/31 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000300050003-9 


Approved For Rgejease 2001/08/31 ‘gfe RPP79RO10144900300050003-9 


4. Effect on Non-Comunist Chinese . 

| ~The employment of Nationalist troops in Korea would be likely 
to hearten strongly pro-Netionelist elements and to encourage some 
active anti-Comnunists who have no great sympathy for the Chianz govern< 
ment but who nevertheless might view the entrance of Nationalist China 
into the Korean war as a step toward the ultimate destruction of the CCP 
regime. However, the group so affeoted probably does not now form a vary 
significant proportion of the non-Comnunist population. 

In spite of growing popular disillusionment and discontent 
with the CCP, the majority of the Chinese people have not forgotten the 
corruption and incompetenoy of the Nationalist Government. Many farmers 
and laborers, although lacking stronz political leanings,. nevortheless 
feel they have a vested interest in the present regime and its promises 
of land reform and better working conditions and would regard Chiang's 
possible return as a threat to their inberests. 

The reaction of the smaller, but politically more significant, 
group of educated, midule class Chinese would be one of dismay. In their 
minds US employment of Nationalist troops would indioate the inevitability 
of conflict between the CCP regime and the US and destroy all hope for. 
an eventual peaceful settlement of the present unstable conditions. Many 
who still hope for the reorientation of the regime away from the USSR 
and toward the Weat, or at least some rapprochement with the US, would 
lose faith in the US. Many would re-retfully take the US action as 
Conclusive evidence of a US intention of restoring Chiang to power on 
the mainland and as final proof of Comnunist-alleged American imporialism in 
Asia. Most of this group would see as alternative to complete support of the 
Comnunists? antisAmsrioan course. Sone might still hope for an American. 
victory aude ParRERasniNE 1091508 CARP R0N0d2HO90800D5008SeGrgent 


Nationalist leadership in China. 


Approved Fon Rgjease 2001/08/31 : CIA-RDP79R010124900300050003-9 


SECRET 
aos 

5. Effect on Chinese Communists 

US employment of Nationalist troovs in Xorea would cenent and 
atrengthen the foundations of the Chinese Communists’ alignment with the 
USSR and would confirm them in support of overall Soviet strategy. . There 
is fair ground for belief that the decision for Chinese Commnist inter- 
vention in “orea was not adooted without considerable opposition by a 
group within the top Pei~pting leadership which has not been happy over 
the all-out Moscow tieup and which felt that China's involvement in var 
with the US ~- at least at the present stage -~ would be ultimately 
disastrous for China and showld not be considered as an inevitable contri 
bution to be made to Moscow's world program. Our employment of Nationalist 
troovs would discredit and disillusion this grow by vroviding "evidence" 


of an unalterable seterminetion on the part of the US to accomolish the 


overthrow of the Com tunist regime and to replace it by the hated “uomintane. | 


Under such circumstances the group would orobably have no alternative tut 
full suposort of Moscow's progran. From the immediate standpoint, it would 
renove any slight chance there might be of the Chinese Communists! being 
willing to accent a compromise settlement in Xorea, 

In the m antime CCP would be quick to exploit the US supoort of 
aMT troops as final confirmation of 211 past Commnist allegations of 
American "imperialism" and "aggressive designs" and thereby achieve 


telling effects on all presently "fence~sitting" countries. 


Approved For Release 2001/08/31 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000300050003-9 


ore 


Approved ForBglease 2001/08/31 : CIA-RDP79R010124900300050003-9 


SHCREL 


ay : 
Ancther effect of our employment of Nationalist troops, which, while 


perhaps not of immediate consequence, might be of later importance, is. the 
influence that such action would have on certain military commands within 
the Chinese Commnist Army which, there is some reason to hope, might at. 
some future oropitious noment be ready to defect from the Communist side. 

6. Bffect er Group Gh tiled Foren Brommeete 

Evidence ee that, while certain guerrilla grouvs are under 
Nationalist control or would accept YatJonalist leadership, the grester 
provortion of guerrillas and other discontented elements would not subscribe 
to Nationalist leadership and would seek rather to accomplish their aims 
through the organization of some form of third force. US BaDIcemeAt of: 
KME troops by discouraging both these elements and potential Communist 
Gefectors as to the prospects of eventual US eupport for a third force 
might destroy the possibility of the organization of such a force without 
which there would be little prospect for the overthrow by internal action 
of the relatively well-entrenched CCP regime. 

7, The USSR 

Moscow would probably welcome a unil+teral US decision +6, employ 
Nationalist troops as further embroiling the United States with Communist 
China without forcing the USSR into decisive action, as driving a rift. 
between the United States and its allies, and as providing additional 
supoort for the international Soimusidat-arooseanaa attempt to depict the 
United States as imperialist, intent avon war, and fostering and supporting 


reactionary regimes, 


Approved For Release 2001/08/3 a ee DP79R01012A000300050003-9 


