OLESSEASCATIC. J ms 


: : : moprovee For RENIBAAY FeBAGE ho 


INFORMATION REPORT op no, 25X1 
CUNTIDEN TIAL 


COUNTRY Korea DATE DISTR. 6 wad 50 
SUBJECT North Korean wilitary vedical Facilities NO. OF PAGES 3 

25X11 ee ey se : WN {10.0 aN ae N p? 
DATE OF ne SUPPLEMENT TO \ 


INFO, REPORT NO, | 25X1 


aA HACE ACT , 2 

oe ae en SEAS 2 Transtasion OP TH THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 
Ba NEED ay if OP K15 FoRN t if : 

a a ae GE hs eee ee 


to The primary function of the North Korean ‘“Alitary ‘ledical Service is operation 
of medical services for the health and sanitary needs of North Yorean mili- 
tary personnel. The following specific tasks are included: 


&. Health services: Examination of military food to see that the established 
quantities and qualities of foods are provided for military personnel and 
whether the food was prepared in a sanitary manner, and regular medical 
axaninations for all military personnel, provision of adequate facilities 
“or bathing and barber services, and inspection to see that clothing is 
properly disinfected, 


b. ‘ledical care: General treatment for Cisse and injury and the dispatch 
of soldiers to rehabilitation centers iin accordance with health exemination 
results, : 


Ce Immunization: Inoculations of all military personnel, 


ase The ‘Medical Corps (Kun vi Chio), which is directly controlled by the ilinistry 

of National Health, has three departments: First, for registration and assign 
ment of the staff to various organizations; Second, for inspection and examina- 
tion of medical facilities 3 and Third, for medical supvly. Under the National 
Héaltn Vanistry are aiso tne Gentiva) edacal ixamination Center, and the teu 
habilitation and Recuperation Genter. 


3a Hach army division has its own medical department, with a staff of three, a 
Surgeon-general, a non-conmissioned officer statistical clerk, and a clerk, 
Bach division has also its division goneral hospital or medical battalion, with 
a staff of eighty to ninety, of whom twelve are physicians and tvo pharnacists, 
Departmental subdivisions of the division general hospital include intersal 
medicine, Surgery, dentistry, x-ray, and an epidenic prevention COLPPS © 


ha Each régiment has its om medical center or medical company, with a staff of 48, 
inclading four physietans and one pharmacist. This unit treats only slivhtily 


CONFIDENTIAL 25X11 


CLASSIFICATION 2009 


GING 


Decuueit ie: --- LA Se 
Ne Change In Class. ia 
eclassifiad \ 


25x11 ase Changed \Fer N 


This document is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with thé 

letier of 16 Octo 1878 from: the 

Director of Cen Jereddhgyd 

Archivist of thé’ ARBs, 5X1 


ADMIRE ADATO0s-1 


G 


$ 
G 


kotha HR 7 
wads a+ Ged = 


Approved For Release 2003/08/11 “CT#=RDP82-00457R006400100003-1 


POuACE AGENCY = 
. CONFIDENTIAL 


CENTRAL IN 


wounced personnel and transfers to the divisional general hospital an: personnel 
requiring more than fourteer. days' treatment, Each battalion has thee nredical 
platoons, staffed oy one physician, two non-commissioned officers, an Siva 
medical corpsmen. Company medical platoons in each battalion mumber rime 


to a nompanys each platoon consists of one non—commissioned medical of mer 
and Four corpsmen. 


theee 


The eight division general. hospitals are in the following cities: Hoshi. 


(127-32, 39-51), Hoeryong (129-45, 42625), Tanam (129-h1, l1-b2), wons y, (127-26, 


39.0), Sariwon (125, 3830), Sinviju (12-24, WG-06), Chinnampo (12 -%i1, 
34-1), and Pyongyang. Divisional hospitals are equipped with operatin rooms, 
four or five microscopes for simple dleod ani obher examinations, ant! sass wits 
keray Laboratories, Ther have no physiolosical or pathological Jaboprat.j 
Repimental medical centevs usually have one microseupe and are otudpred. co: 
Light treatments. Medical platoons have very simple facilities sud ave eludnped 
prim.rily to treat ewerpency cases, and nedical detachments are Limited 4» light 
surmri¢al trealment. 


Uedieawl personnel include dectcrs of internal medicine, surgeons, X-ray «ch- 
micizus, pharnecists, and ambulance drivers. The vresident of the divisi ual 
Hospital and the chief of each section is a nedical school graduates other 
anpleyees have passed “the North Korean medical exaninations. “o sests or ez- 
erinents are nade oy the medical departuent, since the number of personnel 7 
inadequate even to care for wounded soldiers. 


yy 
& 


In wer tine, medical detuchments are about half a kilometer (adoub = quar 
of ao nile} behind the front lines, and medical platoons are a like distarce 


fartrer from the front. Regimental medical centers are usually five to six kilo« 


meters (half to three-quarters of a mile) behind the front snd division nedical 
centers eight to ten kilometers (five to six miles} back of whe lines. Field. 
hospitals move within fifteen to twenty kiloweters (ten to twelve miles) of the 


lines. Rear area hospitals are in Namiung, Pyoneyang, and Sekehu (175-0, h0-2)). 


There are a few rehabilitation centers in Uortrh Yarer for convalescents. 


From the front lines, the wounded are evacuated on foot if the wound is alight 
or by stretchers, horse carts, and cars. ‘\ounded are taken Sirst to wedical 
Jetacaments, thence to medical platoons, then to regimental medical centers, 
Pineliy-to the division hospital, Seriously wounded men mist be resoved within 
six byars of the time they are injured, but it requires twelve to fifteen hours 
boa tae the woundea to divisional general hospitals when proner form is observed. 
transoort was also slowed down during the fightin: in Sowth “ores because it was 
eraitted to move only at night in order to avoid air raids, hed a soldier sas 
racovered he is returned to his own unit. 


t 


Field hospitals have been receiving natients from the three divisional medical 
eanters, These field institutions are usually in civilian houses ard are 
without special aquipment except for elementary surrical requirements. #4 
Aespivals have no laboratories and surgeons are the only medical personne! as 
signed, “edical officers da not serve with the troops. 


Soldiers carry no health records bul a statement of blood type ani voeciration 
dates for typhus, typhoid, and cholera. Each man has a first aid kit containing 


two SoyLetemade handaces and about hen yards of gauze, orth Korvan soldiers 
were inoculated against typhoid and cholere just before they crossed the ‘aktong 
Piver, on 25 ard 26 fuzust. . 


Approved For Release 2003/08/11 : CIA-RDP82-00457R006400100003-1 


25X11 


Ciege 


AGRE TINE ERIE ee 


vee 


espa 


(ad Cee 


Sap HEY PRE 


Approved For Release 2003/08/ 


AA-RDP82-00457R006400100003-1 
la ay 


iff 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


ss be 


when a recruit enters the army, he is required to bathe and have his hair cut and 


fe receives clean clothing. leis then placed in an isolation company for 
fifteen days. After that, if he has no infectious disease, he is sent to the 
unit to which he has been assigned. <Any soldier who is absent from his unit 
for any reason also undergoes a fifteen-day quarantine period upon his return 
before resuming active duty. “hen an infectious disease occurs in a unit, the 
patient is immediately isolated. These regulations are sirictly observed. 


In vaar areas military medical personnel receive training in physiology and 
first aid, and some corpsmen are trained. In addition to their medical work, 
they also learn map reading, estimation of distances, and techniques for carry-- 
“ing the wounded, and for giving such inoculations as typhus, typhoid, and 
cholera. WWilitary medical. installations are responsible for the health ccndi~ 
tion of their ow staffs. 


First aid training consists of instruction in the use of bandages, handling 
broken bones with splints, artificial respiration, and some knowledge of ras 
treatment. Gas masks were not provided but theoretical instruction in using 
them was part of the training, as well as directions for escaping from a gassed 
area and some gas precautionary seasures. “iedical personnel were civen no in- 
struction in chemical or bacteriological warfare, althouch courses in bacteri- 
ology directed toward manufacture of vaccines are offered in the medical depart— 
ment of XI Dlesdng University in Pyonzyang. 


Medicsi training for army personnel includes the following: 


a. Yater purification by boiling and by cheaicals. Tach soldier is supposed 
te carry his ovm tadlets to purify drinking water, but sun clies were 
(oo shert that it wes impossible to provide adequate amounts of :ta>lets, 
resinental medical centers had some purifying agents, but these were never 


actually used. 


ba Fheld sanitation: This includes selecting camp sites which are not damp. 
placing latrines nore than six yards from the barracks, seeing that kitchens 
are neither too hish nor too low, and utilization of stream water from the 
highest point for drinking, the next for cleaning grains and vecetables, the 
next for cleaning mess kits, and next for washing persons and clothing, and 
the lowest point for animals to drink and for cleaning vehicles. 


c, Inmunization: In addition to studies in the nature of infectious disease, 
this includes inoculation, removal of diseased patients tr Special areas, 
ecatrol of traffic in infected areas, and disinfection, Attention is di~ 
rected particularly to control of typhoid, cholera, typhus, plague, diph- 
theria, anthrax, recurrent fever, dysentery;, sliallpex, scarlet fever, cere- 
orospinal meningitis, and meningitis. 


In order to avoid insect-born diseases, the army uses DOT sprays and fly-lkeilling 
sprays. It prohibits work before dawm and after sunset, and guards who must be 


‘out curing those hours are yiven protective caps.: wen meningitis was prevalent 


ia the Namaung area frou daly to Septenber 19h9, the arzy orcered a tio-kilometer 
square area of grass to be cut around each military instillation or camp. 


ipideniology survey and control teans are assigned to divisional medical batial 
cons, Nach team, consisting of one physician, two interns, and several medical. 
corpsnen, carries on investigation and registers statistics of eridemic diseases, 


Approved For Release 2003/08/11 : CIA-RDP82-00457R006400100003-1 


25X1 


Daf oR <onenrmertee ee mise rer ten 


nag Fe a 


ery 


