acme - ” ‘A a y 
co. Aye Cy ye 2G65- iy 
t cory Approved For Release 2005/04/243 GRY 79R01012A0d0300050002-0 
7, “DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 


HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
WASHINGTON 25, D. C. 


Dr. William L. Langer, Assistant 


National Estimates, Central Intelligence Ageney 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. W. Park Armstrong, Jr., Special Assistant, 


Intelligence, Department of State 
Major Generel A, R. Bolling, Assistant Chief of Staff, 
G2, Department of the Arny 
Rear Admiral Felix L. Johnson, Director of Naval 
Intelligence 
Brig. General Vernon BE, Megee, Deputy Director for 
Intelligence, The Joint Staff 
Mr. Victor P, Keay, Acting for Assistant to the 
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Dre Walter F, Colby, Director of Intelligence, Atomic 
Energy Commission 


SUBJECT; (Secret) National Intelligence Estimate No. 12, "Consequences 


of the Early Employment of Chinese Nationalist Forces in Korea," 
12 December 1950 


1. In the original Draft of NIE No. 12 the military implications | —G)\p 
appear to have been inadequately developed or welghed in the final con= 
ee clusion, Whereas the political implications admittedly are of vital 

importance at this stage of delicate negotiations, the law of 

returns has already set in with resnect to those negotiations, 
consideration should be given to the question of utilizing Nat 

troops than this paper wowld indicate, With the departure of 

the Chinese Communist delegation and of Mr. Vishinsky, and th 

that negotiations may be resumed at some future date in Peipi 

that the Commnists are in the process of buying further time, 

which thelr forces in Korea will drive for a final military da 

Hence the initiative to take eny and all possible countermea 

our capabilities cannot be delayed in the hope of diplomatic 


2. The amendments set out in Tab "A" are recommended. 
*USAF Declass/Release Instructions On File* 


1 Inel ae i 
Tab "aN we on a 
ayoRt. 
' This decusent contains Yoforvatian affeoting the rate of Intelligence. 
a Stat ithin the paTeeys Eosemyar EB 
onal re Unite ates wi syangat Her —————--— 
ee paead es mole whe 2B USO, fiavicw of (his documant Gy si ad 
er o4 & + 138 Ss) thepEw oa. “ee <2.8 aphed Shad 
ro “i 793 and 794. Its transwissien or the sone 


D/ Gia bas ne eblesiion to Gestass 
i contains iniormation ef uiA 25X14 
interest? deed must remain © 


. . lug sdon of its contents in any seoner te aa 
nm aorized person is prohibited by law. 


Approved For Release 2005/04/R6E GR FFYPP79RO101 2A000300YRHIQy-0 eas 
“Fo A = OQ i es 
re Pees Be ge eS Sane Bate L/2/8i i 


Approved For Release 2005/04/26 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000300050002-0 


eg ) raygze y 
ul of QU SEGR PT 
) . Avth, 0/S,USAF 
RAB OAR 


“18 Sec 60 
AMRYDVENTS OF THE DIRUCTOR OF INTELLIGENCE. U,S.AsP. « 
TO HATIOWAL, INERT. Tom STIy 2 SEOU OF 
THE RARLY EMPLOYMENT OF CHITOSE NAPTONALIST FORGES Tit KOREA! , 
12 DECEMBER 1950 ' 


IGENCE ESTI 


1. The Director of Inteliigones, U.S.A.F., hae reviewed Ratieual 
Intelligence Batimte No, 12, and offers the following anendmenta; 
@. Reference p. 1, par. i. Auond first sentence as Lollowns: 
"She Chinese Nationaliats have offered a task force of 33,000 troops 
fer service in Korea and possibly could svovide a-sveater-nanbes up to 
about, 150,000 without jeopardising the security of Taivan." 
) % Beference yp. 2, par. &. Roeviee as cllows: "Phere 19 Bo 
inmoediate crisis 3a Korea requiring Chincse Hetionaliss troops to pre- 


vent 9 disaster, but Shere 19 2 requirement to begin the dynonie explodt- 


ation of any anti-Communist Chinese forces both jn Korea and on the Chinese 


mainland, whose commitment could have a favorable effect on the Kozean and 


possibly the entire Far Tastern Situations. The Chinese Nationalist forces 
oa Formosan provide the only visible means for such exploitatioa. The 
PPeserce-er absence of Chinese Nationalist troops in Koren 4n-the-himstcd 


munteva-catimated-to-be-avadhabhe within the anmediate near future and 
later would not be a major factor affecting the ability of UN forees to 
establish and hold a defensive line seross the peninsula against numerically 


vastly saporior Chinese Communist forees, previded the US-UW introduced, 


Zoinforcenents directiy, 


J 


a re ae, 


Approved Fox Belease aie a: PISO Oe che anesontes 
es Hie, 


, Ge Reference yp. 2. par, 3. Add at end of paragraph as follows: 
OAn important requirement in Korea is for additionel infantry, By using 
Hationalicst infantry as a soreoning force, present _UN forces in Korea could 
bo ueod gore offe $4 atri force. The defense of s beachhead 
requires o mobile reserve which counterattack quickly at the points of 


gveatest eneny pressure. * 

ad. Reference p, 2, par, 4. Bevise as follows: "fhe best Chinese 
Comsanist forces are now deployed in North Korea and Manchuria. If hostil- 
ities between the US and Communist China wore to spread beyond Korea, or 
should the Chinese Nationalists independently initiate operations on the: 
mainiand, the commitment of Chinese Hationalist forces in Korea would re- 
duce Chinese Hationslist offensive capabilities for carrying out operations 
on the mainland, such as supporting anti-Communist guerrilla operations. 


On the other hand, utilization of Nationalist troops in Kores would serve 
to_contein greater numbers of Communist foress in Koreas, whether or not the 
fighting has spread. Such containment in addition would lessen the reguire- ve 
mons for Serehi for action on the mainland. * | 

6. References p. 2. par. 5. Amend firet sentence and add @ new 


sentence as follows: “Whatever the military outcome in Korea, the employs 
ment of Chinese Nationaliste there would, in the eyes of other nations, 
further identify the US with the Chinese Nationalists and would constitute 

& degree of moral commitment for continuing US support of the Chinese . 
National iet regime. Since this moral conmitment would at the same time aie 
identify U.S. intentions to support gntieCommmist forces within its CB) fe> | 
bilities, 1% would have s positive psychological effect of potentially 

great value throughout Asia and the rest of the world.® 


Approved For Release 2005/04/28 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000300050002-0 


et Approved Fox Belease SEER MACOS OOONNOeS 


Revise as follows: ‘Without 


ity of UN nations would probably reject a US proposal to use Chinese 


Nationalist troops in Korea, There is a general. apprehension that the 
employment of Chinese Hationalist troops in Korea would give impetus, or 
at least provide the pretext, for increased nilitancy on the part of Com 


munist China. Despite the repeated assurance of the US-UN to respect the 


al reached 9 high level in committing the Fourth Fic hd 
represente the best available Chinese Communist military force, It is 


aifficult to see any new form which this militancy could take. MThée-mi2a- 
saney7—~would—inozease Therefore, there would be littie increase in tha 


danger of a general war with Communist China, which é6-tuza-nteht-devezep 


least in the boginning, the Western European nations weald night feel 
strongly that the US we jeopardising the first-priority task of defense 
of the Kuropean continent by beecming-davelved &coptinued involvement 

in protracted hostilities in Asia, it ia unlikely that those UW nations 
Mould withdrew their troops and active support from Koren. They might 

_ Some to appreciate the determination of the US to take constructi¥e action 


in an araa of 


Communist aggrossion. The employment of the Chinese Hationalists wrerée 
might alienate those elements in certain other Asiatic countries, which 
. . 


Approved For Release OLE 


Approved Fer Release et |e alll 


who consider the Chinese Hationaliets to be reactionary, politically 
incompetent, snd already repudiated by their own people. On the other 


MALL. tb reeist Communist ageression, Uakiatereh-Ui-eoties-ia-neing 
reanee settcentiet AceneSehe Aatenstlr-Aasee-teesinae 2h eddition, 


& Reference p- 3, par. 7. Amend as follows: “Ata time of 
delicate negotiations the use of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea 
wouhd-~zonove-whatever-chanes-migst-seuain-ef might have prejudiced 


& political solution of the Korean conflict deriving from those negotis- 
Signe. Althougs-it-ic-cvident-that-Cammaniot-China-strengls~aupposse 


geaerai-Sevi.et-stvatcgic-ebjectivas,-thie-suppers-night-boowne-c 
eswenger-28-e--9e6ukd-of. the-220-6F-Ghbaeso-Rationaiies-fonces-in-Kerea: 


Pg LATE Ag TETAS EEEL ST AiR 


ie sous aoeaea negotiations now appears either isgpossible or _ too long 
delayed to ba effective, the shee 


of the use of ae x tionalist forces in Korea, and fresi ng? 


4 
Approved For Release » SECRE -RDP79R01012A000300050002-0 


RET 


4 


r 8 rf 


ee a Approved Fer Release cols) Zi eoPTeRO19¢3A000900050002-0 


Trostraints imposed by the U.S. praventing then £ ating against 


the Chinese mainland, _ would appear to outweigh other gon siderations, 
if the mininun interests of the US-UN are to be safoguaried in Asia, 


will aid in the deterioration of our prasent ven 


view of Chinese Communist vulnerabilities and the potential for exoit- 


ation Chinese anti-Communist forcsaa 
considerable." _ . 
. h. Reference p, 3, par. 8. _ Delete ‘entire paragraph: “She 


UEER-vowld-paobatiz-weleeme-n-untietewal . . , venetionary-regine,"* 


SECRET 


New’ 
5 
Approved For Release 2005/04/26 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000300050002-0 


