IDS - fo 
gs Z cui 


EGRET 
TaApproved For Release 2005/04/38 RiOP79R01012A00020068)601- 1 2 pw 


DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE —~ ee 
HEADQUARTERS ‘UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ~ 
WASHINGTON 25, D.C. ‘22 Decesber 1950 


MEMORANDUM YOR DIRECTOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE 
ia {Attn: Dr. Williem L. Langer, Asst. Director for 
ot Pt Rational Estimates, Central Intelligence Agency) 


SUBJECT: {Seeret) Dissent of the B/I, U.S.A.F. on HIE-12, 
"Consequences of the Barly Eapleyment of Chinese 
Mationalist Forees in Korea," 2) December 1950 


1. The Director of Intelligence, U.5.A.F., dissents in WIE-Le. 


2. In general, this estimate has emphasized the military and 
political disadvantages of the employment of Chinese Nationalist 
forces in Eorea, and has failed to point out adequately the advantaces 
which would accrue to the U.5.-U.N. campaign in Korea by the use of 
wach forces. Specific points are as follows: 


& The discussions in this paper appear to have been governed 
by the accaptance of approximately 33,000 Nationalist troops as being 
#asentlaliy the total mumber available for eaployment in Korea. This 
office estimates this number to be far lese than the totel available. 


b. The estimate does not give safficient consideration to 
the fact that Chinese Nationalist Forces offer the only readily avail- 
able force for mejor augmentation of U.N. forces in Korea. In fact, 
gach insufficient consideration falls to give planners grounds for 
ieoking upon the avallability of these forces as a factor influencing 
the datermination as te whether or not a beachhead should be held at 
all, 


e. Introduction of a lerge number of Chinese Nationalist 
troops could make a substantial contribution by providing much-needed 
infantry to the U.S.-U.H. campaign in Korea, if a beachhead were 
retained. 


a. "hie office does not believe that the reactions of all 
the various Agiatie nations te the amployment of Nationalist troops in 
Keres can be assessed with sufficient accuracy tc warrant the con- 
elusion that these Asiatic nations will be irrevocably opposed to the 
utilization of these anti-commnist forces. In this respect, more 
deference is pald in this paper to the attitudes of the governments, 
or majorities in the respective countries, than to the elements which 
fullyrecognize the Commnist menace and would be encouraged by this 
new opposition to Communism's advance. It is not beyond the bounds 


Document No, ______-_ 
fleview of this document by CIA has 
*USAF Declass/Release Instructions On File* determingt that ae 
CASA kas no cbjsction ta daclass 
H hae talus injormation of CIA 


rest thal must remait 25X1 
Approved For Release eee ih 3h) lard -17T3 = § 


Approved For Release 2 REDE fis. rop79R010120000300050001-1 
ae : =e 


ef possibility that even in Burope, public opinion might learn to 
applaud firm opvosition, whether it be in Zurope or in Asia, and in 
fact might prefer the fight to be made in Asia. 


e. The estimate indicates that the use of Chinese Nationaliat 
troops in Korea would eliminate any remaining change of an immediate 
political solution of the Torean conflict. This dissent in no way 4a 
intended to contradict this conclusion. However, 1t appears to thie 
office that the law of diminishing returns has set in with respect to 
the probability of a satisfactory immediate politicel solution. The 
discugsion in the paper does not warrant a sound conclusion ae to 
whether or not utilization of Netiamalist troops would prejudice or 
aid an eventual political solution. 


3. ‘The estimate implies that the employment of Chinese Nationalist 
troops in Korea would give impetus to, or provide the vretext for, 
inoreased militancy on the part of Communist China. It is reasonable 
that any increase in militency, if such is possible (other than against 
Hong Kong), would be governed more by Chinese military capabilities and 
their own time-table than by any provocation which might result from 
the exployment of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea. 


4. There appears to be insufficient data to justify the conclusion 
in paragraph 7 of this estimate that "the USS would probebly welcome 
a unilateral U.S. decision to use Chinese Hationalist troops in Korea." 


8. Phie office would revise NIE-12 as indicated below: 


a. Reference n. 2, par, 2. Revise as follows: There 1s no 


pedis srisis requiring Chinege Nationalist tro go prevent 
B.Gisester, but this opportunity to begin the dynamic exploitation of 


presenee-—or absence of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea tn~-éhe~dindied 
numbere-oosimeted-te-be-avedleble within the dumediase pear future and 
Aetsr would act be an important e-mejor factor affecting the ability 
ef UN forces to establish and hold a defensive line across the peninsula 
BE] 
Approved For Release 2005/04/26 : |: ee eee 


_ Approved For Relegse 2005/04/26 : CIA-RDP79R01012AQ00300050001-1 


ageinst mumerically vastly superior Chinese Communist forces, ynhegs the 


b. Reference yp, 2, par. 3. Ard at end of paragraph as follows: 
° . F By 


& Reference par, 4, Amend first sentence end add a new sentence 
as follows: "Whatever the mii t Geary outcome in Korea, the employment of 
Chinese Hationalists there would, in the ayes of gertain other nations 
ah the present time, further identify the US with the Chinese Nationalists 
and would constitute ¢ deeres of moral commitment for continuing US support 
of the Chinese Nationalist regine. 


ad no bt Eee vor 120) TET eS) Ee} fe a 


4. Reference par. 8. Revise as follows: At the present time 

a asjority of UN nations would probably reject a US proposal to use Chinese 
Bationelist troops in Korea, There is a general apprehension thet the 
employment of Chinese Nationalist troops in Korea would give inpetus, or 

at least provide the pretext, for increased tiiltancy on the part of 
Communist China. € 


Approved For Release 2005/04/26 : Clg-RDP79R01012A000300050001-1 


dn Hone Kong). Ghse-mitbsaney-woukd~inerceme Therefore, there probably 
would be Jittie incrcase in the danger of 6 general war with Communi st 


China, “tich dagzer de~-dura-miehé-develes-iste-ergiebal-wer airendy exists. 
SHGbAbLS —_ 


feel strongly that the US was jeopardizing the first-priority task of 


defense of the Zuropean continent by deseuiag-bavelved 2 continued involve- 


err ee ‘The employnent of the Chinese Nationalists weetd micht 
alienste those element in certain. other Asiatic countries, shkek who 
eonaider the Chinese Hatimatiets to be reactionary, politically incompetent, 


and already repudiated by thet ‘own people. the oth nd, the ~ 


+ Atma pay Amend os followe: " eof delicat 


negotiations the use of SbLnece Nationalist trocpe in Korea would-reneve 


sdiaincdsigiange aagdSennianst might have prejudiced an immediate political 


Approved For Release 2905/04/R EGRET 72R01012A000300050001-1 


‘'¢ ‘ 
Approved For Release 20081041 EER Eobroro1012aqv0s00050001-1 


solution of the Korean conflict deriving from those nesotiationa, 
Aléhough-it-+4-evident-that—Jonmnies-Crine-strengiy-cappertc~-generax 
Saviet-atvategic-objcotives,y-th} é-auspors-night-beaone-even-stronger-aa 
a-powadt-of-she-wee-of-Chineee-Fattonabiet-feveee-ta-Kevear This would not 


%. Beference par. 7. Delete entire paragraph: "Ghe--VésR 


would-~prebebly-whleone-a-wndhctered ..... woastionery-vegines " 


G. P. CABELL 
Maj General, USAF 
Directar of Intelligence 


SECRET 


Approved For Release 2005/04/26 :gClIA-RDP79R01012A000300050001-1 


