Approved For Release 2007/05(44) NELDE N Ta Abaco 00010087-5 


JCS Declassification/Release vw ws | 4 
Instructions on File : P O.CUMENT NO. ee leet ore 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE aAyn®@uiie Mouss O 


(1 DECLASSIFIED () 
JOS REVIEW COMPLETED OFFICE OF NATIONAL ESTDIATES CLASS. CHANGED TO: TS SLO! (440 
: NEXT REVIEW DATE: 
: , > WA 70-2 
PACOM Review Completed ae ae FEO fo _ REVIEWER: 
MEMORaANDUM OF INFORAATION NO. ly 26 January 1951 
FOR: National Estimates Board 


SUBJECT: The Militury Situation in Korea 


Sir Benegal Rau's statement on 25 January that the reported lull 
in the Korean fighting "may not be without significance" has increused 
speculation on Chinese Communist intentions in Korea. UN forces in Korea 
have not been in contact with the mass of Chinese Comaunist hth Field 
Army troops in the western sector since the UN withdrawal to defense 
positions 40 miles south of Seoul in early Januurys No contact hus been 
made with Chinese 3rd I'ield Army units in the eastern or central sectors 
since the evacuation from Ilungnam. Although recent UN patrol actions 
in western Korea indicate a withdrawal of Chinese troops from advanced 
positions, field reports do not indicate that major Chinese units of the 
lth Field Army have withdrawn from their reported locutions south of 
Seoul und the Han River. Although 3rd Field Army units are believed 
to have moved southward into central Korea, there are indications that 
sone shattered elements have withdrawn to anchuria for reorganizations 
There are, however, continuing reports of supply buildups in the enemy 
rear characteristic of preparations for offensive action. It has been 
the experience in Korea that Chinese Communist troops, because of their 
limited trunsport facilities, require considerable time for re-supply 
between major offensive operations. 


4 


Following the first large Communist offensive along the Chongchon 
River on 28 November 1950, the Chinese required a month in which to pre= 
pare for their second assault on 31 December, which carried them across- 
the 3Uth Parallel, Their supply lines now are even longer, and heavy 
casualties were suffered during November and December operations. The. 
Far Kast Comaand has estimated that the Chinese Comnunists have suffered 
over 100,000 casualties in Korea, and they would be forced to accept 
a far greater number in a determined effort to force UN troops out of 
Korea. Because heavy losses of experienced troops cannot be easily and. 
quickly replaced, even though China hus a large manpower reserve, field - 
observers feel that the Chinese may now be reluctant to spearhead 
additional attacks, 


Heanwhile, field reports indicate a feverish effort has been 
underway since November to recunstruct a North Korean Aray, far larger 
than t.ie original force of 120,000 that invaded South Korea last June. 
During the pust few montns, North Korean units have borne the brunt of 
the fighting around Wonju in central Korea and intelligence officers 
have speculated that the Chinese are now holding back until the North 
Kor2ans are strong enough to undertake major attackse 


sor MEIDENTIAL 
Approved For Release se UU) 9T00937A000100010087-5 


