belen| 
L——] 
tonal 
toned 
ine 
exe 
a= 
— 


la 


25X1A 


25X1A 


| ARH 


ea 


GLa ee FS Ha peal SE cre tse CGM NAVPHEL 


Approved For Release20(t0% ax GIAcRAPS2-00459R0067007 a 


INFCRAMATION REPORT  ecpro 25X1A gy 
CONFIDENTIAL... | 


FuST 8 


Jf a Si 


North Korean Farmers’ Reaction to the War NO. OF PAGES 4 


NO. OF ENCLS, 
(LISTED BELOW) 


SUPPLEMENT TO 


Just before shebeginning of the attack on South orea in June 1950, the North 
Yorean povermmant had mobilized and had umder wilitarv control approximately ten 
#itlion person’. ALL men aad women from 18 to 4S were given military train- 
ine and received military certificates; persors oétween hS and 60 were wobllised 
for work in mices and munition plants; and persons cover 60 were to serwe in iccal 
self-defense ucits detailed to handle inspection of higtoay trevel. 


With auch general mobilization, farming in North Korea suffered, since the farm 
ert were too busily engaged in military duties to be able to do their cwn work. 
The women left in the villeges would have contimuec with the fara work, but they 
were mobilized ‘or weaving cotton cloth, and ali men remaining at home were re- 
quired tc make a pair of straw sandals each day. : 


The farm situation deberiorated again because of the drought which occurred in 
widesumer. eth the droveht, the damage from military attacks, and the deiibe 
erate devastation caused by the retreating Vorth sorean troops, much oj’ the 
farmland has reverted to vilderness. Producticn for the 1950 harvest was barely 
thirty percent of average, and the food shortage for the winter is expected +o 
be acute. 


Tm the Jonsan area, tne fara population at first felt that the South Sorean forces 
would immediately drive back and annihilate the Uorth Kerean army. ‘hey were 
discouraged whea North Korean Leaders streamed south aftex the fsl* -f Seoul but 
regained hope ‘ith the entry of iI forces inte the north. Inhabitants of the area 
felt that ihe I would assist them againbt the threat of farrine 


* [EP cmrcnt, This muber seems rather large, but it presumably includes 


‘LL persons in self-devense units, military manufacturing installa‘ions, 
and relate’ production, 


ait Comasnit. How much of this attitude was dependent. upon continued Ul 
Success in che north is net indicated, The Wonsan area has net ocen prée~ 
vious Ly reported as noticeably anti-Commurrist and would appear, from 
this soa. ent, to be zather opportunist than firmly attached to the Uh. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


py erent jw eigen pe sen tae te 


f 


ae 


ee | 


This document is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 
tetter of 16 October 1978 from the 


Dlrector of Central Intelligence to the 
Archivist of the United States. 


