GS OOICAT ON m=z CONFIDEN HAL 
‘ Approved For Réléave 2001/04701= CARB Ps 2-0048FRb0680 

iNPORMATICN REPORT  cono. o5X1A 

4 


4 feb SL 


SQUNTRY Korea PATE THSTYe. 


SUBJECT  sovieteKoreang in the North Korean “overnment NO. OF PACES 7 
25X1A 


(LISTED BELOW) 


yb wh NO. OF ENCLS. S 


SUPPLEMENT TO 
REPORT NO. - 25X1X 


ia all the ministries of the North Korean sovermnment, the key vositions were 
held by personnel from the Aagaki SOR, but of Korean origin. Rach ministry 
also had its Soviet adviser, The Korean group and their Sovict associates 
imeluded the folloving: 


toed 


a, Iinisbry of Finance: , _- 
. * x i y : Sy. at 7 
Ministers KD Chian ( ‘be Ay (), aoe and Russian nane unimorm.* 
Adviser: Tlatovski, age about 50, a former Sovict Army colonel from 
the Givil Affairs Neadquarters (also called Ronanenko's 
Headquarters ) 


b. Ministry of vomierce: ,, , 

Minister: CIANG Sten (4% tk # ), native Korean.* 

Vice-Minister: YU Ka-i (64 70) }, Russian name Pavel Lazarevich, 
age U2, narkied to a Soviet Caucasian; former civilian 
employee sf Civil Affairs Headquarters; after being 
Casa k vice-m.nister changed his name to YU To-s¥n 
(4 4 oy ). 

Adviser: nomena’! ‘About 37, forner Soviet Army captain with the 

Sivil Affairs jeadquarters. 


co Ministry of Industry: Jeet 
‘inister: KIDD Chtack (f ia ), ative Korean. 
Vice Ministers: KO Kai ( % 4. o) ), ace about 38; craduste of some in~ 
dustrial univuvsity in the USSR; arrived in Pyoncyans 
Garing the latter part of 19135, 


This ministry hac the larpest stafi of acvisers, located in all major 
industrial plants throughout Jorth Korea in such cities es Pyongyanr, 
Kyomi o, Haeju, .onsan, [uncnam, Sonsjin, Chonsjin, and Aoji. 


dg, Ministry of Transport: 
Winister: PAK (¢f },# Korcin name uninowm, Russian name Illarion; ace 
4O; Soviet rail.ad construction and maintenance enrineer 
(Inghiner Putei soobshcheniya) who arrived in Pyongyang 
during the latts> part of 1918; after the Korean war bezan, 


CLASSIFICATION sez 


enn te 


____ DISTRIBUTION 


sentamete: 3-e 


isvaie dy 


Sanaa 


jARMY . : 


This document Is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 
letter of 16 October 1978 from the 


Director of Central Intelligence to the 
Archivist of the United States. 


Next Appromed dar Release 20 


: Approved For Release roo oso ONG IRENT: 


ma. 
peace 


“e 
Has 


UENTRAL INTLLLIGENCE AGENCY 


25X1A 


wore the uniform of a North Korean two-star general. 
Vice Minister: NAM (#) ),% about 36; also chief of the Pyongyang Nail-~ 
road be trict; sometimes appeared in the uniform of a 
one~star general. . 
Adviser: Ostapets, age about 5h; arrived in Pyongyang in July 19.9: be- 
lieved to be of Hebrew *:traction. 


Under the Ministry of Transvort, the Denartment of Auto Transport con= 
trolled all auto transport throughout North Korea, including sovernnent- 
owned taxi services in the larger cities. Chief of the department was 
GHONG ( @@ ) s age about 37, from the. Kazakh SSR; after the war bevan, 
he was apbointed chief of the Pyongyang Special District Defense De- 
partment, which nad headquarters in the air-reid shelters in the re~ 
stricted Moran Bong Park, Pyongyang, and wore the uniforn of a oneestar: 
general in the North Korean ara. 


Ministry of Interior: , F 

iinisters: PAK Tl-u (#t ~~ % ), native Korean. 

Vice«linisters PAX (ff ),# "ace about ho, from the Kazakh SSR; one-star 
genera], at the becinnins of the Korean war, later pro~ 
uotsod to two-star general. 

Advisers Rodyagin, age about 46, former Soviet army colonel from Civil. 

Alfairs Headquarters; believed to be a member of OKRis: Counter~ 


intelligence. 7 
Deputy Adviser Loyenko, is age about 303 NCO in the Soviet 25 Arny 
and Liaison during the Soviet occupation of North Korea, in charrce 
Officer with of the army bakery; after the occunation, seen in Pyons- 
the Soviet Em yang only in civilia clothes; believed to be a member 
bassy ot OKR Counter~Intellicence. 


iinistry of Apriculture and Forestry: 

Linisters Unknown, believed to be a native Korean. 

Vice-i‘Lnister: Unknown; Kazakh SSR Korean. 

adviser: Ivan Ivanovich Kadyshev, are about 57; former member of Civil 
Aifairs Headquarters, rank unknown. 


Ministry of Health and Welfare: 
iinister: Unknown, native sorean. 
Vice-inister: YI [ #.), age about 45, from Kazakh SSR; UD from a Soviet 
.. medical school. 
adviser: Pashevski, age about LO; Soviet Army colonel 3 arrivee in Pyonte 
yang early 1n 1950; also chief of the Soviet hosmital in Pyonr 
JAN o i 


Ministry of Communications: 

iinister: Unknown; belicved to be a native Korean. 

Vice-iinister: -SIN (4), ace about 35, from Kazakh SSR. 

Adviser: lLazarev, age avout 145; former Lieutenant colonel in the Soviet 
25 druy, exact unit unknown, wt 


Planning Boards fons se 
Chairman: CHONG Chun-ttaek ( ap yi /% )5 native Korean, age about ho. 
Vieo«Chairman: On ( ), are about 0, from the Kazakh SSR; arrived in 
Pyongyan: late in 19483. wounded during the evacuation of 
Seoul in late September 1950. 
Adviser: a * age about 13, civilian; arrived in Pyongyang in late 
1949 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/04/01 : CIA-RDP82-00457R006800620009-7 


« 


25X1A 


eorg— CONFIDEN 
Approved For Rel eaRR ORDA AeBRES? -00457R0 -7T25X1A 


as tee 


a 


je Ministry of tducation: 

liinister: Unknown, native Korean. 

Viee Minister: Nal Il ¢ rel },* Russian name unknovm; age about 35, 
frox Kaadth SSR; brother of the Vice-!“inister of Trans-- 
port; before the establishment of the North Korean 
fovernnent worked in the office of General Balasanov, 
the cinlomatic adviser during the Soviet occupation. 

Adviser: Believed to be Morozov, an ofiicer of the Soviet Dmbassy. 


k. Supreme Court: Me 
Senior Procurator: CIton ( 4 ), age about pe from Kazakh SSR. 


1. Norun Korean Labor Party Central Conumittee . 
Liaison Officer to the Sovict Embassy: HO Ka-i ( od “ }, age about LG, 
from Kazakh SSR i 


Telephone numbers of Kazakh SSR Koreans were listed iu the directory with 
Soviet embassy porsonnel, as were thoso of the Soviet advisers. On lists 
Yor cistribulion oz scarce merchandise used by Churin and Comoany,#rn the 
nanes of Kagakh SSR Koreans were included without differentiation with the 
yubassy names. «An instance of the position of these Koreans with relation 
to the Soviets is given as follows: when the Soviet forces withdrew from 
North Korea in the swxer of 1943, Churin and Commany opsned a bakery. ‘Since 
bread ration cards were not ready in time, the bakery for termorary use in 
the cistribution of bread received a list of "embassy employees" who were to 
receive rations. This included all the Kazakh 552 Koreans anc their ad. 
visers. «when the ration cards wore suonlied a few days later, the Soviet 
embassy requested the return of the list, but the girl in charge of bread 
distribution had mislaid it. The manager of Churin and Comany was imn~ 
mediately ordered to the embassy and warned that unless the list was returned 
instantly the sirl would be court martialed. The list turned uo shortly and 
was delivered to the embassy before any action was taken. 


It was quite noticeable ia Pyongyang that all the Kazakh SSR Korean ministers 
anc. vice-mim.sters had late-model American sedans imported from Nong Kons for 
their use, while native Korean ofiicials of equal or even higher rank con~ 
tinuea to use battered pre~Jorid Var If cars, 


ALL advisers of North Korean ministries reported to the Soviet embassy every 
morning before proceeding to their respective offices 


sorment: Among the gestous previously identified are che following: 


Lae Pm oreo 


GHANG Si-u is from South iyongan Province; sec 25X1A 

GHNG Chunet'aex is a native of North Hamryong y educated in Korea, 

"0 Kank was born in Tashkent and is a Sovj d member of the 
Soviet Central Committee 

Ti. Chan was txrn in the USSR; 

NAM, Vice-liinister of Transpof 
native of North Narmryonr 


a * soviet eee eee 


NAM I] was born in the USCR; 25X1A 

“AK, Vinister of Transport is vres iat ts van ( so i “}y Soviet 
Korean bern in South Hancyong; 25 . 

PAK, Vice-linister of Interior, is >resuna M Yun-sen ( fp fd ) 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/04/01 : CIA-RDP82-00457R006800620009-7 


_ Approved For Release roorvompancia eee bolle ca oc09-7 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
25X1A 


ee 


2X1A GE Comment : The following were listed in the XXIV Corps 
poviet Personalities in North Korea: 


& wajor Kadishev, graduate of the USSR Agricultural Acadenty, 
was Civil Administration representative in Boceiving ve- 


hicles from UNA. 
A Captain Lagarev was in the cnerations section of Soviet 
Intelligence Headquarters in lomhune. 


25X1A et BE corner: This stends for Otdel Kontr Razvedki (Counter 
Intelligence Section). 


25X1A sete Comment: The correct spelling of this name is Loyenko, 
althourh it has also been reported as Layen:co. [lis association 
with intellicence orcanizations is believed to be correct. 


Z5X1A sess ial Comnent z situetion of Churin and Comany in Pyonryan: 
is discussed in 25X1A 
one, 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/04/01 : CIA-RDP82-00457R006800620009-7 


