Approved For Relgase 2001/03/09 : ee 


‘) 
Copy Koy _ SECHET 


PSE MCT Eas ae 


25X1A9a 


OIR/DEFY COWMASUTION To NIke32: 


“COURSES OF F ACTION 


Maych 6, 1951 


State Dept. declassification & release instructions on file 


DEPARTMENT? OF STATE 
OFEPICS OF INTELITGEHCE RESRARCH 
Divialon of Reseerch for Far Fast 


Review of this document hy GIA has a 
SECRET determined that = 
CIA has no objection to declass 


< It contains information of GIA 
interest that oo one 
classified at 
Authority! ae me 


Ri, contains nefhing of GIA inter st 
sas Reviewer 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000800050023-2 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79RQ1912A000800050023-2 


SECRET 
pie ail 


TT. TO. WIN? FAVHNC [iS THE KOREAN CAMPAIGH AFFECTED COMMUNIST 


ise if Tit In EAST? oT 


reenter Wee 
ANE MRI SE NM AT 


META GO DS 


A, Have Chinese ond Koresn losses to date been such that they 
h, May have streined or disrupted the domestic economy of China? 


The Chinese Comunishe hare to date been able to support their 
military offort in Korea without seriously disrupting the Chincse eccnomy. 
Priceg have been held relatively stable and with few exceptions supplics 
of sssontial conswers cocds appear to have been adequate to meet Teqvuirse 
mouts. Apparently, the Chinsse Commmists have been able to finance the 
costs of theiv Kerean vorture through the postponement of reconstruction 
expenditures and through en increass im revéenes made possible by the 
favoxable 1950 crogs, the enlarged tax bese, and seme Incrosrs in tax 
rates, Morgovez, the tvocps dispatched to Korea were lezgely fortes In 
being, emi it 1g probable thet the costs of mobilizing, equipping, and. 
tmuining zeplacousnis have not as yet yeached the necessary levels to 
replace military losyes. , 


Ta the. bane area of Menchuria there is evidence that industrial 
output has declined slightly and that the emplaymont of lexge mmbers of 
civilians in military supporting operations hag reduced employment and 
 eubput im euch winter ocoupetions as lumbering, marketing, and hinting. 

This loss of output, hovover, ip not likely to have serious effects on 
either the military effort or the Lecal econrcay. 


B. Would contimed Chinero-Boxesn operations in Korea on the present scale 
be Likely to 


4, Cause a significant drain on Soviet resources? 


The continuance of the Korcon campaign would vary likely crecte an 
increasing strain om the Chinese economy. It is probable thet with the 
eventual mecessity for larvo-scale troops replacements military costs would 
rise considerably over prucent levels and that the continued postpansmsnt 
of reconstruction expomditures would begin to diplocate markets and 
production and to veduce the capacity of the Chinese Comanists to nobliize 
Yerources. 


The extensian 
SECREL : 


_ Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000800050023-2 


Approved For Relgase 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79RQ1912A000800050023-2 
SECRET 2 


fhe extension of octire military operstions into the Menohurien 
frost-free geasda of Nay threugh September would have a sericus effect 
on farm output in 1951 dus to the withdrawal of egricultural labor and 
avait animals fox mlittezy sunport activities. A reduction of agricyltural 
eauteut to the levels of 1ohy end 1918 «. yoarg of active civil war 
fighting in Monekura «« voul?. largely wipe out Manciuria's export surpluses 
and would greatly reduco the rescuxces avallable to the Chinese Comministar 
ia 1952. : s 


Despite thece cenoiderstions, the Chinese Commmists can probebly 
maintain the present rate of expenditure of military reseurces in Koma 
for some time at the escrifice of demestic reconstruction and welfare. 
With substantial military reserve forces in being which can be concentrated 
and supported In the grain«surplus area ef Menchuria and eupplied with 
Soviet materiel, it is wmlikely in the short rum that econemic pressures 
wild gubst pie affoct the nilitary capacities of the Chinsse Comamirntea. 


TIT. WHAT BAS BEEN THE EFFECT OF THE KOREAN CAMPAION 0] COMMNIST INTEWrTORS 
eit th AR ste 


A. General Considerations 

It sooms evident fron ullitery preparations now underway ia China 
that the Commnists at this juncture envisage at least contimed military 
operations in Korea and pogsibly aleo expamied military action elsewhere 
in the Far East. 


The form that future military coerations might assume can be enalyzed 
in texts of threes possible developments: 


1. Contimed Comminiet capacity for leuaching major offensives 
in Korea 3 . 


; 2. Loss of capacity to launch m jor offenetves in Eorea but 
continued Commmist ebillty to carry on a var of attritian; 


3, Reduction of Comenist etrength to the point where complete 
Gefeot in Korea becomes a distinct possibility. 


B. Intentions Assuming Commmigt Copactty to Launch Major Offensives in Korea 
At the moment, the Ccrmemnista probably have the capacity to lameh 
major offensives in Korea for the achievement of limited military chiJectives. 


They probably believe, kovever, that their strength in Korea les less in 
thely prospects for direct military victories than in their capacity to 


absorb 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09,4,64A-RDP79R01012A000800050023-2 


Approved For naizaze 2001/03/09 : CIA- RDP79RG1012A000800080023-2 


DRE 3 


abecorb greater Loscen thon could be endured by the UN command and to 
maintein a Long drawn ove * gbrainine ON selidarity and endurance, 

The Soviet Union would proudly supply such additional materiel as would 
be veauired for en opercticn of this type. 


It is provable that Pol~p'ing hag given thought to offensive moves 
against Indochina, atu er, Hongkong, end possibly other places in the 
Far East ag a mesne of diverting UN strength from the Korean fighting. 
Rovever, Chinese Communist intentions with respect to other offensive 
moves in the Far Fast will, in any event, probably be determined primarily 
in the light of factovs cilior then the needs of the Comumist military 
camaign in Korea. 


Military cperations against UN forces in Korea would not proclude 
Pel-p"ing's gimultencous partiotpation in discussions perheps celife- 
initiated, of poeceful eettlemont. The Chineso Comamist aim in such ‘i 
negotiatiens would prokebly not te the conclusion of 6 political settlemant, 
but vather tho creation of ag much discord among the UH allies as poseible. 


Cc. Intentions Assuming Icrs of Communist Capacity to Lech O/'fonsive 


I? Pei-p"ing-and Moscow folt thet the Chinese Communists vere no 
longer capable of launching further major offensives in Eorea it is thon 
likely that they would. engege in a war of attrition in the hope that the 
elusivenses of a olesreaut victory over the Chinsse and Kevean Coram st 
troops would sap the morale of tho UR troops and gradudly improve Contmmdlat 
military fortunes in Korea, ville pimultenecugly the Comamists might, 
by other céurzes of acticn, bring abowt a chenge in the imtermational 
conditions, epmpscialiy thore in the Fer East, that now enable thse w& To 
concentrate much of ite fighting strength in Korea. 


Egtimeting that the north Korean troops would be unable by themselves 
to deny the UH forcar ccosss to the Menchurien and Siberian borders and to 
maintain Commmint governs ntal authority on Korean soil, Cemumint China, 
with Soviet approval, would prokably try to prererve en armed force of its 
own in being in Korea to thie end, probably investing additicnal matériel 
and whofficteal perscmme]. sent to them by the USSR. The Soviet Union, 
however, would probably not Intervene openly. 

Cammist motives for creating diversions elyéwhare in ths Far Exst, 
assuming thelr contismed militaxy ability to do so, would be equally strong 
as in the eituabion cutlineé under B. 


D. Intentions Acsuming C Coumuriet & Recognition of the Posnibllity of Defeat. 
in Koves 


Realization of the vorsibility of complete dofest in Eorea would lead 
the Comamists to give grester ee to such factors as the limitetions 
on the availability of ecgential heavy woeapomes, ammmition, and equipment 
from cub of the Soviet exsenal -« limitations imposed by other demande upon 
foviet military production. Both the Chinese Communist and Sorict Isaders 
weuld probebly | also realize the greater ultimate importance of strengthening 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000800050023-2 
Chinn "5 


VPP 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79RQJA12A000800050023-2 
in 


OW specu 
ila bia 
irae 


ra 


vel lengererenge striking pover, 


Ghina's militery 4 ai 3 
projects that now 2 ae vith the Korean campaign for 


whatever technical sestetcnco ani materiel the USSR can make available 

to Comaraiet China. Tris lonveiunce consideration could be bettressed by 
a possibly Broving emcioty in Pel-p“ing over the increased efforts 
required to assert ant maintcin effective camtrol over the Chinese 


populace. 


Tho Piret reaction of the Commmtists to ea deterioration of their 
militery peaition in Mores might be the broaching of new terms for a 
nogotiatad settlement ; ing perhaps come significant concesgiona 
to the viewooint of the ies camouflaged by Pace-faving gestures. 
This move would be clously acacipanied by a withdrawal, as forced upon. 
then, of the Chineso Cauunist troags to a series of strongly defensible 
positions within north Sores, Tvexy attempt would be made by Pel-p Sin 
to make the Ui wilitery advonces sostly ani to stress ita Oly 
on a peaceful approach to the solution of the "Kerean problem.” The 
Soviet volo duxing thie poxic’l would proéhebly be restricted toa 
continuing provision of contain weepens, amanition, and equipment to 
the Chinoze Commaint forces and to the sxpport of Pei=;'ing’s peace — 
moves in the UR. A dewperste Chinese Cemmamist resert to the launching 
of major military operctionn elgevhore in the Far Fest would not be 
likely to cceur, since It would jeopardize the attaiyment of the principal 
Chinese Commmist atm -«- tho cessatio of a costly conflict that threstensd 
the security of a Fital area of Ching and the etteimment of a. cottlensnt 
in Koxea cn as favoxsble toxty to the Gemmmists as possible.. 


Pugsoat Soviet Intentions with Respect to Korea 


E, Whst Appear to be 


: Present Soviet imtentioas in Korea apparently leok toward a comlste 
defest of UN forces’ at a maxinun and to involvement of the UN, end 
particularly the U8, im a len; inconclusive military operation at a 
miniiam, Moscow may already have accapted the possibility that the Chinese 
Commumists will not bo able to ozpel the UN from Korea and thet a long 
stalemate may ensue. In this’ situation and at this stage, the USSR 
seems prepared to offex woral, diplomatic, ani a certain amount of 
covert militexy suppor! while evoiding dixect intervention. 

If 1t beceme clear that the Chinoro Commmists faced defeat in Korea, 
Moscow, to achieve ite oziginsl objectives In the area and preserve beth 
its om prestige and Sinc-Covlet scliderity, would probably Incroase _ 
substantially ite aid to thse Chinese and Korean Communists. This night | 
involves the uso of groster misbers of Soviet planes and prices » inorecsed 
numbers of teclmical pexcemnel, ond perhaps “voluxtesrsa” if necansery. At 
the sete time, Moscoy covid to expected to suppoxt aty paybiclpation om 
Peiep'ing's paxt in discussion of “peaceful” settlement. If these 
efforts proved insufficient the possibility camot be disregeried that the 
USSR would go to the oxtreme of veging an all oub, although perhaps still 
“saoPfielel,” military campaign over Korea. 


F. : Recent 


te tated 


Approved For Release 2001/03/88" GtA-RDP79R01012A000800050023-2 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09; CJA-RDP79RQ4A12A000800050023-2 


See 


F. Recent Chinese, Casrni.:t Pesce Voves 
Peieo ine bes unde no oicniPieant definite moves to settic the Borean 
proven eros mecotievion sites Tts ceunter-proposal, te the UH of ' 
dommery 17. A prominent Chinese Commmist leader ipdicatsd at the Sarict- 
gponsered. “WoxlA Pesce Council” in East Psrlin on February 22 thet bis 
overtmient wold support in principle a Sepower conferences to discuss a4 
nolubien of the conflict in the Par East,” but. the “Council” aid not 
subsequently incorporate this proposal into ite final resolutions. 


SECKEL 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000800050023-2 


