COUNTRY 
SUBJECT 


ACQUIRED 
DATE OF 


- 
2a 


Bo 


ho 


5. 


_ Approved For Release 1 65/5 09 : saceiceiatnconnsinadlie, 
CLASSIFICATION Abn 25X1A fe 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENG 
INFORMATION REPORT = cpno. 


EAAGENCY REPORT NO. 


Korea/China DATE DISTR. 22 March 195) 
Chinese Communist Occupation of Seoul NO, OF PAGES 
25X1A 

NO. OF ENCLS. 

(LISTED BELOW) 

SUPPLEMENT TO 


8 January ~ 1 March 1952 REPORT NO. 25X1X 


About 8 January "Hail Stalin and KIM il-song" posters and pictures of 
the two leaders appeared in Seoul. These and similar propaganda were 
distributed by Communist youth organizations and the Democratic Women's 
Alliance members who had re~entered Seoul. Signboards were set up for 
the various propaganda organizations as in the previous occupation by 
the North Koreans. 


About 1) January North Korean political administrative officials arrived 

in Seoul. Their first act was to confiscate for the state all property 

of the faudlies who had fled south. The property of those staying was 

not affected. After the aduinistrative officials arrived, portraits of 

MAO Tse-tung greatly outnumbered those of Stalin and Kim Tlesting. 1% 

was rumored among the Seoul citizens in late January that the administrative 
officials were working for the Chinese Communists through North Korean 
Conmunists. 


fhe officials were friendlier than those of the previous North Korean 
eecupation. ‘they tried to win support in Seoul by various neans including 
the prohibition of extortion, rape, and compulsory labor, although 
Communist youth often exacted labor before the officials intervened late 
in January. Another measure to induce cooperation was pointing out the 
fact that the North Korean Army had ill treated the civilians; this 
gausedsany civilians to comment on the lenience of the Chinese Communists, 


In early February, when suppty became short, the Chinese Communist 

attitude changed, The confiscation of food and uedicines from the residents 
of Seoul gradually increased until, in late February, it was at its worst, 
The term "confiscation® was avoided to soften the effects and the confis= 
cating was carried out by the North Korean forces under agreement: with 

the Chinese Communists. 


Posters emphasized the characters *Korea-China,® implying the union of 

the two nations, and appealed to "Chinese Communist volunteers" or "Chinese 
Communist troops" to "devote yourselves to ousting the American imperialists." 
Posters on the unity with or the friendship of the Soviets and praise of 
toreat Stalin" were canmon in the earlier occupation but almost totally 


as 


Approved For Release 1999/09/03), CIA-RDP82-00457R007300170005-2 
: Le, 


7 
Lote 
ee 


25X1A 


ee h// ;S 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE enct Si 


ao 2 = 


absent in the second one after early January. 


6, About 1 March, the North Korean forces conscripted all citizens between 
the ages of 15 and 0, and moved north 8,000 of them, tke majority women. 
Speakers in the drive used the slogan: "To stay means learning the 
rotten spirit of Syngman Rhee, Come with us and learn the sacred creed 
of Communism, 


Approved For Release 1999/09/09 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007300170005-2 


