cussincaon Le @ONrIneN Tia, — ee | 
ee’ INFORMATION REPORT op no. A 


SOUNTPY = Korea VATE DISTR. @4 YAR 5L 
SURJECT North Korean Guerrillas in the Chiri-san Area NO. OF PAGES af 
PLACE NO. OF ENCLS. 


ACQUIRE (LISTED BELOW) 


DATE OF SUPPLEMENT TO 
INFO. REPORT NO. 


1, he orgmization and dispateh of guerrilla troops to work in the Repudlic o7 
Korea are under the direction of the Fifteenth Burceu, Worth Korean Dopertment 
of National Defense. Guerriila personnel are selected Prom verious political 
and social organizations affiliated with the North Kovean Labor Perty and from 
the ranks of the North Korean arny. Enlistment ie termed voluntary but is ac= 
tually on a compulsory basin. 


=, When dispatched to the ROK, querrillas are promised by the North Korean Jie~ 
vartment of National Defense that they wiil be returned to North Xoraa efter 
3ix months of guerrilla work in the ROK amd that upon theix return Shey will 
secelve commiasions as officers in the North Korean arny. Sontrol crear the 
guerrilla troops is naintalned by the threat of capital punishment 4f the 
guerrilla shirks duty or defects and of punishment to nembers of his femily in 
Worth Kore ao 


3, Worth Korean guerrillas in the ROK have their general headquarters in the 
Thiri-aan (127-42, 65-18) area. From this point units are sent in small. 
avoups into surrounding areas with a rendezvous at a fixed point and date. 
One group, sent out late in December 1950 to the mountainous sxvea surrounding 
iupungemyon (127-50, 25-56), Forth Cholla Province, was charged with the task 
of destroying road ané. rellway bridges between Taegu end Pusar at vericus 
points. 


4. Guerrilla wits with their members disguiaed in ROK police or axny unlrorms 
garry on recomaissence during the day. Their main targets are rollroada, 
communications, and rail and road bridges at vitel points, At night, they 
raid villages for foot and clothing, and in areas where mannoover haz beon 
seriously depleted by conscription even eepture livestock for food suoplics. 


3, Guerrilla activity is systematic. Seven or eight members of a unit recon= 
aoiter on ares during the day to spot police or troops and nots deteils of 
possible defense and topograxhical obstacles. Then at night 70 to SO men may 
raturn vith guides to carry out an attack on their terget. Azmament ia Lime 
ited to,rifles and hend grenades, with a few Sovlet PPSH. 


{evra ce wees ff? 


EP EEE here bern, 
& 
aha RS Nea Ss 


CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the KS t ARXoy TB § 6 
letter of 16 October 1978 from the fi fe F 


App Wed ES), <eigase 200 T163/08 CIA-RDP822804 rR bu 363001058 AM 


r. 


ree 2003 2 3 23 Ss 


BAimsek Daye oes 
' Movt Review 


