Pan 25X1A 


rt 


. ote ere wale Lf : 
Approved For Release 2001/03/05. GIA-RDP82-00457R00 7 Lo 
WEORMATION REPORT cp no v 


DATE DISTR,2 APR Ot (s 


NO.OF PAGES 5 


SOUNTRY — Korea/China 


CONFIDENTIAL 


HEAIET Sonetitubion of the Overseas Chinese 
oa ae at ae 
aBG0ciabaGn OL North Rorca 


ane 20X1A | | 
Sgiaen xu hia 


aaa AV: yn SUPPLEMENT TO 
REPORT NO. 


SATE OF 


Yo give positive support to the patriotic war oi self~defense for the demo~ 
Lic independence of whe lalherlard led by “AD Tseetungs; to oppose the 
ivvasion of China by U. S. imperialists; and to oppose the betrayal of sur 
country. dictatorship, and civil war of Lhe KUT reactionary CHIANG Kateshok. 


"oq wive positive supsort to Jarsnal Stalin and the Soviet army, whe sided 
ihe Liberation af tne Ghinese pearle and to the great friend of the Cainese 
necole General ATi) Ti-sén,: and the Eorean Democratic Government led by hin: 
"Oo purbicipate actively in the enterprise of Horean democratic nationz1 
renapilitations ard to promote closer union between the peoples of China 
aikl Zoree » 


GC 


Yo support and carry out firmly the land reform, the labor laws, and 211 
oLher policies and Laws of the Vorth Morean Democralic Government; to orm 
genize the Overseas Chinese, step up production, solve their difficulties, 
ani dlumprove their Living standards. 


vo stamp out the remnants of enemy Fascist educs-ion and clind orthodcex 
ideclory: to establish overseas Chinese schools an] promote cultural] enter- 
rises svch as newspapers and bookshops; and to push the cultural education 
of new democracy amon Loe overseas vhinese masses. 


» draft of the constitution of the Overseas Chinese ‘issociation of Horth Korea 
vurhains the following provisions: 


“Ler Ls ‘jyeneral irovisions 


‘eLisle 1. This association shall be qnown as the Overseas Chinese Asseciation 


of “erth Korea. 


Tocdele 2. The Association shall be located for the time being in Pyenryeng. 


___ CLASSIFICATION couPiyfreat ay, 


Nok” Ld BISTRIGUTION 
Fa pa EA 
er come Peal neat TE htt 


This document is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 
letter of 13 Cctober 1978 from the 
Director cf Central intelligence to the 


Archivist ci i390 Unit 
os Approved, For Releas 


Next Revie 008 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 
COUFTDR 


25X1A 


CEMITAL IMTELLIGEICE AGENCY | [= —— 1 
* “CONFIDENTIAL 


‘rticle 3. This Association shall thoroughly enforce the four major princi- 
ples as outlined in the platform, shall exoand its services to 
overseas Chinese, and shall conduct various democratic activities 
under the Leadersnip of the North Korean People's CommittLee, 

articie 4. All overseas Chinese over 18 years old residin;: in North Korea, 
regardless of sex, who accept the pletform and constitution of this 
Association, who have no anti=democratic ideas or conduct, and who 
wish to join this Association may join the Association as members. 


Chapter IT: Hights and Daties of lLiembers 
article 5, The rishts of members are as fullows: 


a, ALt members of the Association have the right to elect, so be 
slented, to deuand a second vote, or to dismiss. 


ob, They nave the richt to submit problems to the Association and 
to express their opinions. 


ec. dhey have the risht of first priority in enjoying benefits of 
public welfare enterprises conducted by the Association, 


a, They nave the ri-sht to request the Association to act on their 
aehnoaie in arranging their return to China. 


#, When a member returns to China, he has the right to request 
the Association to provide letters of recommendation and ser 
tification, 


£, ALL members have the rictht to ask the Association for aid in 
securing jobs. 


we. ALL members and tleir children have the right to ask the Asso- 
aiation for aid in entering schools, 


ha Members conlronted with special problems or troubles have the 
rickhb to ask the Association for aid in solving them. 


Avbicle 6, Tt is the duty of the members of this Association to abide aurictly 
oy the laws of the North “orean Democratic Government, to uphold 
che platform and constitution of this Association, to " executes the 
resolutions of the Association, and to pay the Association dues, 


Ghapter [IT:  orreanisation and Function. 


Part {. Organization of the General Association 

Agticle 7. Tne supreme organ of aubherity within the Association is the Gene 
eral Assembly of lNembers, which shall be convened once 2 year by 
the Executive Committee of the Association. H,wever, when deaned 
necessary by the Ixecutive Committee or when requested by over one 
third of the total membership, a provision General Assembly of 
Merbers may be convened by the Executive Committee, The musher of 
representatives to the General Assemoly of ‘iembers shall be deter-- 
mined by the [xecutive Committee, The participating representative: 
wmvst include representatives from ull classes and professional preups. 


oes 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 


i 


A d For Rel 2001/03/ Cc 
pproved For Release ee ee ae 


Article 8. 


i ticle Go 


ArLicle 10. 


Article il. 


Aetiele 12, 


25X1A 


Sone eAL CM CalCa ACE CY a7) 


i 
Aas 
i 


The functions of the General Assembly of “enbers of the Associa= 
tion are as follows: 


a. Teo hear, discuss, and approve the work reports of the Mmecutive 
Committee and to formulate the basic principles and policies 
GF the Assoelatione 

i, Yo decide and amend the Association platform and constitution. 


ec, To elect the Exscubive Committee of the Association. 


d. ‘vo examine and anprove the Association pudgets and to study 
and solwe the financial problems of the Association. 


The mmber of members of tue Executive Committee of the Association 


ehall be determined b: the General Assembly of Veubers. 


‘he Executive Committee of the Association shall be the orgen of 
suprene authority within the association during the period wha 
the General Assembly of “embers is not in session. Its functions 
are as follows: 


.. ‘To execute the resolutions of the Seneral Assembly of Uenvers. 
bs. To guide, inspect, and aid the work of the Association. 


cs To receive guidance from the lorth Korean People's Committee 
end to maintain contact and nerotiate with the various sovern- 
ment organs. 


d, To convene the General Assembly of lenbers. 


The Ixecutive Committee of the Association shall elect a Standin- 

Committee of seven to nine members to handle and guide the Associ- 
“ion affairs. The chairman and vice-chairman of the Association 

shall also be elected from among the members of the Standing Com 

GV ee, 


ns 


in order to carry out the duties outlined in Article 10, the 
Standing Committee shall establish organization, propaganda, adu~ 
ravicn, and general aifairs departments ieee tne Association. 
Their individual functions are as follows 


a. he chairman shall rapresent the whole membership in dealing 
vith the cutside. within the Association, he shall guice, in» 
spect, and enforce the work of various departments. 


tu. The vice-chairman shall auysist the chairman in all wrk. \Nhen 
the chairman is absent, he shall act in his stead, 


ce, The Organization Comittee snall consolidate whe Association 
set up, control the increase and decrease of membership in 


various areas, train and assign staff workers, inspect the con~ 
Cition of overseas Chinese in various areas, ete. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 


ppproved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 
COWPIDRUT: TAL 


- CONFIDENTIAL 25X1A 
— 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEECY 


ren } wa 


ad, The Propaganda Depsertment shall rally overseas Chinese to surp- 
aort the patriotic war of sclfdefense in the fatherland, pro- 
“oagandize the support of the democratic laws and policies of 
‘North Korea, proparandize the four items of the platform cf 
the Association and the work of the SSOGTSUEON guide overseas 
Uhinese publications, theatrical froups, and bookstores, guide 
the propasanda work in the provinces, etc. : 


e, The Hducation Department shall zuide the Overseas Chinese Mid- 
die 5chool, the overseas Chinese primary schools in various areas, 
night classes, newspaperereading classes, ani other sociai ed- 

ucation enterprises. 


ry 


» the General Affairs Derartment shall handle the reneral affairs 
and financial matters of the Association, inspect the budget 
and financial status of the provincial associations, collect 
membership dues, etc. 


\yticle 13. The chairman of the Associ-tion, if he deems it necessary, may est~ 
ablish in addition a Secretariat to handle liaison and docwnentary 
matters > 


igticle lu. ‘The Executive Comaittee of the Association shall meet once every 
Liree months. lNowever, if deemed necessary oy the Standing Ccmmit- 
Loa or if demanded by over one third of the hxecutive Committee 
nerbers, a provisional Executive Committee cr an eniarged ixecutive 
Committee nay be convened. ‘The Standing Committee shall mees twic- 
2 woIrble 


Ayticle 15. The term of office oi the Lxecutive Committee shall be tentatlvely 
fixed at one year. 


. 


Yart Ils Organization of ivovincial and City Associations 

Aytigle 16. The Provincial (cor Vity) Assembly of “embers shall be the organ of 
ae authority within the province (or city) « The Provincial 

(lity) Assembly shall convene once a year upon approval by the 

General Association. ‘he number of representatives to the Provine 
cial Assembly shall be determined by the provincial Executive Jom 
mittee with the approval of the General Association, The partici- 
nating representatives must. include representatives from all classrs 
and professional proups, 


Avticle 17. The functions of the Provincial (City) Assembly are as follows: 


a. ‘To heavy, discuss and approve the work reports of the provincial 
(city) Executive Comittee. 


ob, To discuss and decide the functions of the previncial (city) 
association, on the basis of the resolutions of the Generszl 
Associatione 

s, To elect the provincial (city) Executive Committee and the 


representatives to the General Assembly on Lhe Sasis of the 
decisions of the General Association. 


re YAT. 
CONFIDENTIAL 


bis. 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 
comme CONFIDENTIAL osx1a 
CEITTAL INTEL LIGINCD AGUICY a 


~d 
es cd 


ietiele 18. The provincial (city) Executive Committee shall be the organ of 
supreme authority within the provincial (city) association during 
the period when the provincial (city) Assembly is not in session. 
{tbs Lfunchions are as follows: 


a, ‘lo carry on the @ffairs of the association on the oasis of 
the instructions of the General Asscciation and the resoju- 
tions of the provincial. (city) Assembly. 


bh, ‘Lo guide and inspect the work of the various county ami cl ty 
sgisocLaLlons » 


aw. To solwe the problems of menbewof the provincial (city) asse- 
eiation and to refer to the General Association those problems 
it cannot solve. 


d, ‘To accept guidance from the provincial (city) People's Comait- 
sees of Morth Korean and to maintain contact and negotiate with 
yariLous sovernnent organs. 


ae, To convene the provincial (city) Assembly. 


Article 19. The provincial (city) Uxecutive Comaittee shall eiect a Standing 
Comaittbee of five to seven meubers to hanile the daily affairs of 
the association. ‘The chairman and vice-chairman of the provircial 

aysociation shall be elected from asonz the members of the Stcndins 

CommlLitee . 


Article 20. In order to carry out the duties outlinedin Article 18, the pro- 
yinelal (city) Standing Committee shall organize orfanization, pro 
saranda, education, and general affairs sections under the provin« 
wial (city) association. Their individual functions shall be as 
follows: 


a. The chairman shail represent the entire provincial menbers hip 
in dealin: with lre outside. Withia the association, he snali 
suide, inspect, and enfurce the work of various sections. 


bh. ‘the vice-chairman shall assist the chairman in all work. WOer 
the chairman is absent, he shall act in his stead. 


es The Organization Secticn shall consolidate the provincial as 
sociation set up, control the increase and decrease af members 
in various areas, direct the provincial staff workers, inspect 
the condition of overseas Chinese in various parts of che prove 


a 


ince (city), etc. 


ad. The Propaganda~iducaticn Section shall conduct propa anda ard 
aducation work in local. areas in accordance with the instructions 
of the rropaganda and iiducation Departments of the General. Assoc. 
jation, 


eo, The General Affairs Section shallhandle the general affairs and 
financial matters of the association, collect membership dues, 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 


sotiele 21. 


Aewbicle 2h, 


forhicle 25, 


hevbiele 26, 


irbicle 27» 


CUNFTDSUFTAL 
25X1A 


CENEDAL =e €ONFIDEN TIAL i] 


a 


and inspect tne budse« and financial status of county and 
city aesoeeliations. 


The provincial (city) Executive Committee shall meet at leas’ once 
“very two months. ‘lowever, on the basis of instructions frou bie: 
anerai Association and if deemed necessary by the Standing Gommit- 
tee, or if demanded by over one third of the Executive ComiLtee 
members, a provisional Uxecutive Committee or an enlarged Kxecutive 
Committee may be convened. The Standinz Committee shall meet twice 
a month ang shall submit a written report to the General Association 


ths 


A 


once every two months, 


The term of office of she provincial (city) Executive Comnities 
shell be tentatively fimec at one year. 


Urpanizetion of County and Ti Associations and lower 
aoe eS tatacaeesh 7 sj as peta io eee eae ane A Nena Ah 080 a OEP nenaemn eS DIUN ER yon a 


wv, 
Seo co set meee ae eer enters see en aed at 


Every county or city thet has ar overseas Chinese population of al, 
least two tundred may orgenize a ecunty or city association. In 2 
couty or city where the cverseas Chinese population is less then 
‘eo hundred, they may orzenize a branch or a group depending on 
the Local situalion. This branch or group may either be atirched 
airechly to its respective provincial (city) association or with 
the approval of the previncial association be attached toa the ade 


as 


joining county or city association, 


The organization and functions of the county or city association 
shail be similar te those of the Drovincial association, The 
county or city Standing Sommittee shall be composed of three to 
“ive persons, and iv shall elect the chairman and vice-chairman. 

im addition, organization, Propaganda, and general arfairs offie 
cere may pe appointed if necessary. [n a county or city with fewor 
than three hundred overs3as Chinese, the Standin: Comnittee may be 
elected directly by the assenbly of merbers or representitives . 


The county or city Mxecutive Committee shall meet once every sonth, 
enc the Standine Committee shall neet once every ten days. They 
shail report te the vrovincial association once a month. 


The term of office of the officers of county or city association 
aneil be tentatively fixed at six months, 


The courrty or city assoc: ation shall. determine ics lower set wp 
dependins on the number of its nembers, local conditions, and the 
setupation and sex ot its members. In place where there are over 
Vive members, a proup nay crrganizes in places were there are over 
tiaiLrty members, a subebronch may he organized; in places where there 
are over a hundred members, a brench may be organized, depending on 
tae actual condition, anc tiis branch shall represent the asacciation 
ia directing whe work of several su>-branches and groups. The per 
sonnel set up of these lower organs shall be determined by the county 
of gGlty asscciation. 


QONE LUA TIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 


Approved For Release sal inline sR PREe DOr or noorsooteonoe 
4 SOUPTDETTAT, . 
25X1A 


chime smb INF] tA 


optiels 28. ‘the number of full-time steff members of the city or county assccl- 
ation (that is, those not engaged in production) shall be deter 
mined by tae actual oval corditions and needs, However, on the 
whole, it must Lobexceed the following npmbers ; 


5, 300-500 Chinese 1 staif werber 
b. 500-800 Chinese 2 staff members 
ec. 800-1,000 Chinese 3 staff members 
a. Over 1,500 Chinese 5 staff members 


Chapter IV: iasociation Funds 


ae. cle 29, the Association shall soive “ss own Sinancial problems in accoki=~ 
ance with the principle of self-support. ‘The provincial, city, aad 
sounty association shall solve tieir financial proolens ‘Lecally on the 
basis of general reguiations Laid down by tle General Association. 


. 30. he associations shali derive tueir funds from membership dues. When 
= deficit arises, they may solicit contributions from the menbers, orb 
° y the appropriate Stancing 


. 
a 


before doing so, the action must be enacted b 
femmittee and approved by the superior association. The raising of 
funds for primary schools in various areas shall be the responsibility 
-f the sehool beards in these arease Yowever, before they can collect 
econbributions from oversees Chinese, they must have the approval of the 


qnoerlor agsociatione 


‘ptele 21. ALL expencitures must be in accordance with @ detinite budget. These 

H ts must be examined by the Standing Comaittees. The budget of 
the county association must then pe approved by the provincial aasoci< 
etion and that of the provincial association by the General Associacion 
before they can become official. Aybitrary spending is forbidden. 


, 
- 
“ 
[ent 
ne 

ed 
No 
ivy 


ihe financial status of tne association must be made public to the 
members every season and also reported to the superior organi zation. 


Chapter V3 SuppLeaentary rrovisions 


coheie 33, This constitution shall be repistered with the iJorth Korean veople is 
commitecee and shall become valid upon its approval. 

cebiote 3h. Any amendment of this constitution shall be made by the General As-« 
senor, Tpon passage of this constitution, it shall be promulgate: and 
mnvoreed 


‘Approved For Release 2001/03/05 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007100160004-6 


