INTELLOFAX 28.) nesiricaTiON RU TLAL Con cl Lik; ve A 
Approved For Relgase.1 #9409/0%3;C WxRBP82-004R¢RDET AA 


INFORMATION REPORT  spno. 


tes 


DATE DISTR. 5 APR Si 
NO, OF PAGES i 


COUNTRY Korea/USSR 
SUBJECT Soviet Financial Dealings in Korea 


£\ 


Z\ mm 


NO. OF ENCLS. 


(LISTED BELOW) 


SUPPLEMENT TO 
REPORT NO. 25X1X 


i. From Septeuber 1945 to Novenver 1917, the only leyal tender in Vorth Xorea 
was the occupation currency distriouted »y the Soviet forces. In ‘iovember 
197, this currency was exchanged for the so-called "red" won, which has con- 
tinued in use ever since. The chanve-over was effected, without previous 
announcement, in the following manner: one noming, all stores were ordered 
to close and posters were put up throughout Pyongyang stating that all sales 
and purchases were prohibited for the next ten days, during which time currency 
exchange woul be handled at the Central Benk 2f Vorth Korea, and that the 
rate of exchange would be full value for the first one thousand won and a stated 
evoportional devaluation for everything in excess of the amount. 


2. In spite of this regulation, Yneshtorg ordered Churin and Company to open as 
ysual, and all merchandise was increased in orice azproximately sixty to 
seventy percent. As a result, the public, anxious to salvage whal was pos-. 
sible from their cash savings, bought everything available at Churin, which 
was the only store open during the ten day moratoriun period. Churin and 
Joma, worked to canacity and made a profit of over ten million won. 


3s oth during and after the Soviet occupation of “orth sorea, rubles were very 
scarce there, The use of the ruble was prohibited in sorea, and aven on the 
black market there were few available. ‘the official exchange rate varied from 
one to fourteen won per ruble,## and the black markec rate, if any were for | 
wale, was ten or eleven won per ruole, ucually lower than the official rate. 
‘Tris was still true in September 1950. 


25X1A 


t me Tor a previous account of. Churin profitemaking , iat 
a é 


25X1A 


tht BR coment. The ofiicial rate sor rubles ani dollars has been about \ 
four rubles per dollar for some time, 


This document is herey 
CONFIPRENTIAL In accoraans 


a wiih tne 
. fom the 
- 9 8 fhe 


letter of 16 0 ies 


Teen ESHA 


CLASSIFICATION cb Miccedatin 
5 DISTRISUTION 


STATE. NAY DX [NSRB 
ARMY FAIR Fal 


CONFIDENTIAL | 


Approved For Release 1999/09 


mee 
aoe | i 


