Yer Mc essimernioy aoa NIE IDENT IAL 
as Sanitized - Apprewed For-Releare:/@HcROPS2-09487 R007" alana ( yg 
(NFORMATION REPORT co no. 4 a9" 


SOUNTRY ores. DATE DISTR, §& APR 521 
a 


SUBJECT North Korean Stay<Behind Workers NO. OF PAGES 


NO, OF ENCLS. 


(LISTED BELOW) 


SUPPLEMENT TO 
REPORT NO. 25X1X 


Sefore its evacuation of Pyonpyang, the Uorth iforean Labor Party held an emer- 
wancy meeting in its headquarters at she end of September 1950, On the instrucs 
ons of the headquarters, orders were given for the respensidle persons of 

“he provincial and city party heacquarters, to appoint tivo enthusiastic and 
suitaole underground workers from e.ch office, 


#9 These appointees were to be left behind when the grth Koreans retreated and 
were to foma an underground Communist organization and to disrupt the controls 
of the occupying UN forces by penetratiny low-level administrative organs « 
“hrouzh faithful Communists who remained in their usval residences, these agents 
were to obtain employment with Lhe occupying forces and do what damage they 
could to unity. Others were to rally Communist sympathizers wong the Laborers 
engaged in fishin: cond various maritine employments and use them to cause dis= 
turbances ,, 


ae Stay-behinds were provided with vold from the Central 3ank of North Korea for 
the execution of their tasks. They were also Riven raw opium, which the North 
Sorean government purchased on the open market, and other valuable articles, 
Non-Commnist supoorters believe that any traffic in narcotics and drugs may be 
connected with trese undercover activities of the worth Sorean agents » 


h. Some of the. personnel who were assigned as stay-behinds are the following: 


i, 4 
ae KET Yol Ff i },* in Kanrwon Province, He is a native of South Nameryong , 
avout 42 years old, who lived in China for several years and then became 
4 partisan in tae USSR, ‘le returned to “erea to become chairman of the 
South Uangyons Labor Party, and just before the [orth Korean invasion in 
June 1950, he was transferred to Pyongyan; to handle labor wnion affairs, 
ve is familiar with Kanewon Province and is popular among shipping workers 
in “onsan, where he was expected to make his headquarters. 
6, CHANG Kieuk ( hie Hap ), aged 52, in South Hamzyong Province » a native of 
wonsan., Just after vorld Var IT, he becane Deputy Winister of Defense in 
the Republic ui s_jater he belonzed to the South Yorean Labor Party 
document is hereby regvaded to 
CISHINTIAL in accordonce with the 
of 16 Cctoher i978 from the 
‘or of Central In'e'aence to the 
St of the United States, 
Next Reviow Baie CLASSIFICATION ae ree 
—__ paw ye Fess}  pistriaution 


fel ss CIsGrEe CQINAVFE#s [Ca 


Snag 


l 


OTL 
fi Pe 


ee Se eee 


Sanitized - Approved For R : - - 
s pp r elease : CIA-RDP82-00457R007 


~ wh 


Pel. 
APG 2. 

4 Wy Fy 
waa Jee 


GENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENGY ; 
Cr 


ay 


“ 

avd was a member of the National Asserbly. We worked with “o Song—t 'ack 
( Bi f%, a ),## chairman of the General issociation of Labor Unions of 
Row. Just before the Vorth Korean invasion CHANG was made chairman of 
the Morth lamgyong Labor Party. He has under his influence many promin- 
ent government officials and leaders in the ROX, including KANG Ki-chin 
( fe ik A ), forner povernor of South llamgyong. 


fai i ss ad 

CHIQE Hakekol el bath)» for ilorth Hanugyon: Province. About 2 and a 
native of Songjin, GilfO! was active in leftist movements in Japan in his 
youth and was leader of an antierovernment distisbance caused by a farners' 
cooperative society at “yonychon (129~28, 1-2}. Although the Japanese 
police tried for three years to arrest him, he evaded them anc remained 

at larze in North Uangyonc. After World ‘lar II he was chairman of the 
North famzyon: Farners' Union and a trusted henchman of the HCLP, 


ee ; 4 
% Po Comment. KIN YOl was previously reported as a merber of the 


ee 


Torth vorean decidins body on policy from 198. 


eS ee 119 SSng=ttaek, North Korean “inister of Labor, is a 
nitive of forth Hamgyon: and _a menoer of the Xorean Central Labor 
Party Central Committee. 

‘i 25X1A 


SEORRE : 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Sanitized - Approved For Release : CIA-RDP&2-00457R007100650001-5 


