| Vt 
= eee 7 
we Approved For Release go i0s/0? ROPTORO10124900800050034- i 


“COMABENTAL 

5 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY = 
OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND REPORTS 


17 May 19521 


EFFECTS OF THE KONEAN OPERATIONS ON THE ECONOLIG SITUATION 
OF THE CHINESE COMMUNIST REGIE 
(Contxibution to i1z=32) 


The following analysis of the effects of oporations in Korea on the 
econonic sliuation of the Chinese Communist rogime has been prepared on 
short notice on the basis of inmediately available information. In the 
time allotted us, we have been able to muster very Little reliable evidence 
as to the direct impact of the Korean war on the econony, We believe that 
the fragmentary indications given below could be supplemented by a good 
deal of additional material if time end resources wero to be allocated to 
a more extended study of this problen. 


Summary 


Inmediately available evidence does not indicate that so far the 
Korean conflict by itself has had mach adverse effecst on the eccnomic slima- 
tion of the Chinese Communist regime. However, while prosecuting the 
Korean war, the regime has been confronted with coubinving inflationary 
pressures, has become dependent on the Soviet Orbit for soma militery and 
civilian requirements, and, because of Western export controls, has been 
denied access to some raw materials and machinery and is threatened with 
the loss ef access to others, The regime has also, because of the war, 
been provented from carrying out mich-needed rehabilitation.and reconstzuc- 
tion programs throughout the country. It hag been concentrating on increased 
industrial production in North China and Manchuria, However, this is largely 
nilitery, and purchases of materials and equipment for such purposes might 
otherwise have been used to improve the cconomy. 


General 


Even before the Korean war, the new Chinese Communist regime was 
presented with widespread economic problems, Thera was a great shortage 
of civilian consumer goods and capital equipment. A mamber of industrial 
facilities were idle because of improper maintenance and lack of raw materials. 
Tn many instances tho machinery was damaged beyond repair or had been removed 
from the plants, This occurred, for example, during World Way II with the 
important power and manufacturing equipment in Manchuria. Despite this 
situatioa, the Communist regime was compelled to devote its major attention 
to relief measures to aid millions of unemployed and potbeammeie ld to emia 
preparedness and operations——all before the Korean capédbikeiiewo. 2 

“NO CHANGE IN GLASS. [J 


—EOHNBETIAL DECLASSIFIED 

foes BUNCE: TS &) 

\ _ Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : coor vzaanniose.d 22) 
; DATE: EVE 


JEWER; 006514 


NEIDENTIAL 


, e 
Approved For Release 3001/03/0%" A-RDP79R010124900800050034-0 


The national economy had, therefore, already been seriously affected 
by defenge and reconstruction requirements befare the Korean war and there 
had not yet been opportunity for a postwar readjustment of agriculture, 
‘Labor and industry. However, it should be kept in mind that predominantly 
agricultural countries, particularly China, are not as susceptible to 
economic dislocations cue to war as are industrially advanced countrLes. 


Indust 


Although the rehabilitation of industry in Lanchuria has been speeded 
up, including some plants and equipment renoved from Shanghai and Tientsin, 
China's military effort has undoubtedly retarded the non-military portions 
of her industrial reconstruction program. There has been increased 
activity in industrial plants to minimize the effects. of export controls, 
particularly in the iron and steel, machinery, metal products, shipbuilding, 
and textile industries supplying military needs. 


Forty-three percent of budgeted expenditures in Manchuria is for indus- 
trial investment, Plans provide for an increased production of pig iron, 
copper, electric motors, machine tools, cotton spindles and looms. The 
vaine of the 1950 output of Uanchuria's state-operated enterprises was 
estimated to be 195 percent of the 19h9 outputs 


There wae a four-fold increase in electric power consumption in 
Shanghai. in November 1950 as compared with Merch-April 1950, Tientsin 
registered a 25 percent increase in September 1950 over the previous year 
with demand exceeding supply. uch of Shanghai's electrical machinery pro- 
duction was sent to Uanchuria to replace Soviet removals. 


The Chinese Commmnists are now operating about 33 main arsenals end 
about 00 minor argonals, the latter being largely mobile repair plants. The 
North China arsenals are the major producers of munitions. — The Liukden 
arsenal is tha most important and is reported to be currently enploying 
20,000 workers and producing about 70 percent of all shells, grenades, 
and mineso . 


the more advanced and heavier typos of machinery in China are nainly 
of Japanese, US, and UK erigin, The Soviet Union cannot be of much assis- 
tance in supplying replacement parts, and there are indications that it is 
furnishing machinery and oquipment. 


Agriculture 


the withdrawal of manpower and draft animals from Manchuria may result 
in a 10 percent reduction in the acreage of food crops seeded for harvest 
in 1951, Under normal weather conditions, this acreage can be expected to 
produce about 1h.) milion metric tons which, together with an estimated 
earryover of about 800,000 metriée tons, can met the usual domestic 
eivilien requirements of about 15.1 million metric tons. ‘The relatively 
sanll uncovered military requirements can be met from the civilian supply. 


CONHBENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000800050034-0 


A&M 


‘Approved For Release 2001/03/0g°¢O)K ‘ 1012A900800050034-0 


Present indications are that the food crop of China proper in 1951 
will be 6 percent greater than in 1950, Should this estimate prove 
correct, the strategic position of food in China's plans need not cause 
any changes in policy. This does not preclude the possibility of the 
ugual famines in certain localities resulting from causes not directly 
related to the Korean war, 


Petrolcun 


Imports, almost entirely from non~-Orblt sources, have always provided 
the major portion of petroleum products in China, These are now limited 
to supplies received from the USSR, as the Kerean war has 
elininated all imports from nonmOrbit sources. Total availability is 
estimated at not more than 1 million metric tons, including indigenous 
production of crude and petroleum substitutes, . 


Chins is neither economically nor militarily mechanized, Hence its 
economy is not sensitive to a decrease in petroleum supplies. Requirements 
and gupplies may now be approximately in balance, but any furthor military 
requirements may necessitate additional. importa from the US&R. 


Labor 


Because of its vast labor pool. the economy of China has not been 
adversely affected by commitments of manpower to support the Korean war. 
With a total labor force of about 125 million males at present, an addi~ 
tional 50 million males over 10 years of age, and unemployment, there 
should be no shortage of labor. 


Industrial workers in Manchuria increased from 1.2 million in October 
199 to 1.) milton in June 1950, There has always been a seasonal 
deficiency in agricultural labor in Manchuria, but 1f normal movements 
from North China interfere with military transport, the shortage can be | 
met by the use of reserve military troops and the recruitment of additional 
women and youth in the area, 


Soviet specialists have been employed in steel mills and mtal 
industries, and in machinery plants in Shanghai and Tientsin. 


Inflation 


The Commmist regime, even before the Korean war, had difficult 
financial problems, The Parity Deposit Unit (a newly invented cost-of~ 
living index) and the price of rice had increased about 100 percent 
between January and March 1950, and the official price of Chinese currency 
dropped from JEP 21,000 to JP 0,000 for one US dollar, A steady 
improvement thereafter until December was reflected by a declines of 10 


¥°9in fin Piao. | CONFIDEN TIAL 
| | SECRET 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000800050034-0 


‘Approved For a ais CIA- -RDP79R010128900800050034- -0 


percent in the index and in the price of rice, and an exchange rate of 
JMP 30,000, As of 30 March 1951, tho exchange rate moved upward to 
SMP 20, *810 for one US dollar whthout a corresponding Improvement in the 
cost~ofaliving index. 


Yictory bond sales wera forced upon the business semeaey and the 
public, and excessive penalties wore instituted for tax evasion and delayed 
tax payments, 


Inflationary pressure is also reflected in deposits of government and 
non-governacnt bonds, bank deposits, and loans to industry. It is estimated 
that government reverne from all. sources covers only about hO percent of — 
State expondi tures, 


Foreign Trade 


Chinese imports frou nomOrbit countries for the first six months of” 

1950 are astimated to have been US § $129 wilton, and for the last six 
months, US $370 million. It is not possible to assess with accuracy the 

value or the volume of imports in either period devoted to the support af 
‘the Kerean war, bub it may be assumed, considering their nature and the 
circumstances of purchase, that at Loast 50 percent was used primarily to 
gatiofy military requirenents for a fighting war as opposed to maintenance 
of forces in being. Normal import and consumption patterns have obviously 
been altered to meet the enlarged military demands o 


It is estimated, fer example, that about 80,000 long tons of crude 
rubber, normal peacotime requirements for about three years, were imported 
in 1950. This represents an expenditure of more than US $100 million, 
which probably resulted in very little if any benefit to the national 
econouy, Ferrous and nonferrous metals, mamfactres, machinery, and 
medical and pharmaceutical preparations with a total value of abmt 
US $125 million and from.non-Soviet sources could probably be listed 
as military rather than as civilian requirements, A normal peacetine 
import requirenent of about one “million bales of cotton was reduced to 
about 100,000 bales during 1950, Strategically important iuports during 
the last: halt of 1950 ware chetiicals, pharmaceuticals, rubber, petroleum 
products, sulphur, vehicles and parts, metals, tires, railway rails, 
copper, tinplate, precision instruments, nachinery', textiles , and textile 
fibers. 


Many of these items were purchased in quantitles greatly in excess of 
either normal requirements or of the capacity of processing facilities, 
some were purchased at prices highar than the world market warranted, some 
wore smugiled into the country, and some moved on to the Soviet Union in 
exchange Lor marmfactares. The axtent to which stocks have heen bellt up 

in Ghina on which her induetay cen draw Lf all non-Orbit supplies are cut 
= depends on what potion of China's recent abnormal. dumorts has gone on 
to the USSR. Unfortunately good evidence is not available to estimate this 


Approved For Release oADIEIAE REE ho 1o12aconscoosocs4.o 


nt | ae 


ao " Approved For Releasg, 7001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A900800050034-0 
- RFIDENTIAY 


movenent, (Nearly all tungsten concentrates, antimony, molybdemm, and 
tin production moves to the USSR.) 


Internal] Sransportation 


_ A temporary effect of the Korea war on rail transport in China was 
the sugpension of some non-military traffic on trunk lines during the 
sumer and autumm of 1950 when there ware large initial troop movements 
to Manchuria and Korea, There are no imications that subsequent military 
teaffic in China has had an appreciable adverse effect on the mvenont of 
essential or important commodities, : 


Economic. Development Prog vam 
No overall rehabilitation and devalopment progran has been announsed, 


although the Chinese Commnists have indicated that a Soviet type of Five~ 
Yoai’ Plan ig in preparation, 


| Aid Obtained from the USSR 


The most significant ald which China has been receiving from the USSR 
is in the form of petroleum products, formerly imported from non-Orbit 
sources, pharmaceuticals and mmitions, and other military supplies and 
ites of indirect military usage. Such supplies ani iters, received in 
exchange for Chinese foodstuffs and raw materials, consist of aircraft, 

| liquid fuels, firearms, radio equipment, tanks, trucks, automobiles, and 
steel plates, ‘a % 


There is no evidence that Soviet railway equipment has been obtained 
beyond that which would have been secured under normal. peacetime conditions 
or under trade agreements concluded before the Korean war, Except for some 
technical assistance and itdns of production equipment and machinery, no 
aid has been requested from the USSR in comection with ferrous and noree 
ferrous metals, China does receive some refined metals from the USSR in 
exchange for minerals, ee 


TPP 


COREIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/03/09 : CIA-RDP79R01012A000800050034-0 


