Approved For Release 2900/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A090400020002-2 
Fe | - | 
SECRET 


I. B. No. 22 Copy No. 


ESTIMATE OF THE SIGNIFICANCE 
OF THE SOVIET KOREAN 
CEASE-FIRE PROPOSAL 


An Intelligence Estimate 
Prapared by 
The Estimates Group 
Office of Intelligence Research 


June 29, 1952 


This is an intelligence report; nothing ‘ 
in it is to be construed as a statement 

of U.S. or Departmental policy or as a 
recormendation of any given policy, 


State Dept. declassification & release instructions on file 


DEPARTLENT 0 
if F STATE Review of this document by CIA kas 
. determined that 
GIA has no objection to daclass 
C) ft contains information of GIA 
interest that must remain 
Classified at TS § 6 
Authority: HR 75-2 


1) At seytains nothing of CIA Interest | 
Date Reviewer 006 S5+¥ 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 s@itArRDP79S01011A000400020002-2 


Approved For Release 2900/08/29 : Stee wee 
SECRE 


SIGNIFICANCE OF SOVIET KORFAN CEASE-FIRE PROPOSAL, 


Moscow's seriousness in its efforts to secure at least 
a temporary end to the Korean fighting ts strongly indicated 
te cee explanatory statement to Ambassador Kirk and by 
the tone of Soviet press comment, 


- 


There remains, of course, a possibility that in the 
cease-fire discussions themselves the Communists will hold 
out for at least implied political conditions, or propose 
that the cease-fire be for a limited time during which a 
"satisfactory" settlement must be worked out. The Kremlin 
might hope thus to secure “estern cormitments that would ule 
timately satisfy long-standing Communist demands, or, failing 
this, to use the abortive discussions to further differences 
in the Western camp as well as to give added evidence of US 
"agprersiveness.'"' 


‘There also remains a second possibility that the Soviet 
proposal is simply a military trick designed either (a) to 
obtain, without intention of a cease-fire being put into 
effect, a short period of military relaxation during which 
UN armies would be expected to remain mostly passive, or 
(b) to gain a respite, under a temporary cease-fire, during 
which the Communist armies could be re-built and re-equipped, 
possibly with the addition of substantial air power, 


It would be most difficult, however, to argue reasonably 
that the Kremlin would attempt @ maneuver as involved and as 
potentially hazardous as that suggested under (a) above. 
General discussions about a truce obviously could not be ex~ 
pected to rround the UN air force in Koreas nor could anyone 
on the Soviet side have any assurance that the U7 ground armies 
would be in fact permitted to remain passive, Any effect on 
morale would obviously work two WayYSe 


The “respite and rebuilding" Sartbtetat d would appear to 
have somewhat greater validity since the problem of assembling 
materiel and manpower for use in Korea is clearly a serious one 
for the Chinese. The Communists however, even if they could 
expect US acceptance of a cease-fire that would leave them free 
to effect the needed build-up, would have to reckon that a 
deliberate maneuver along this line would represent a policy 
decision of the gravest moment for Peiping and Moscow, The 


SECRET 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000400020002-2 


Sc 


Approved For Releasq 2900/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S010114000400020002-2 
SECRET 2 


Kremlin would have to Tecornize that its renewal of the war 
after a cease-fire period would be generally regarded in the 
West, and particularly in the US, as highly prorocnts ye) and 
epee bdo deh which are already strong in this country for 

an extension of the war would be powerfully re-inforced, . 

The Communists would have to consider that a renewal of the ‘ 
war under these circumstances would entail ‘the very rrave 

risks described by the Secretary in his Congressional testi- 
mony of June 27. 


While the above possibilities rerain open, present indi- 
cations point sharply to the supposition that the Kremlin te 

at this stage intent upon securing an end to the war. If 

this should in fact turn out to be the case and the Communists 
accepted arrangements providing for the U te, it 
would mark an important turn in its policy. It would repre- 
sent a distinct loss of prestige for both Moscow and Peiping. 
The Communists would of course interpret a 38th parallel | 
settlement as a great victory; in fact for some time they have 
given heavy play to the theme that the Americans have already 
suffered "a decisive defeat." Nevertheless no amount of propa- 
ganda could disguise that a status quo ante arrangement would 
constitute failure of the Communist agpression and involve a 
failure to achieve Chinese Cormunist and Soviet objectives, 

It would give the lie to all pommunist pronouncements , including 
those of Stalin himself, on the capabilities of the contending 
parties and predictions as to the inevitable outcome, 


Moreover, the Kremlin would be relinquishing certain ad- 
vantages it may have felt it was gaining from the indefinite 
continuation of the Korean war: the tying up of large US 
forces and materiel which might now be available for other 
areas, the strains on popular morale in the US and other 
countries with troops in Korea, and obvious benefits that world 
Communism has been able to secure from an active war scare. 


A Soviet decision for a Status quo ante settlement would 
represent a Kremlin calculation that advantagesof continuing 
the Korean conflict were outweighed by its disadvantages. The 
Kremlin would have made such a calculation on the basis of con- 
siderations arising from (a) the local situation in Korea 
and/or Communist China, (b) the impact of the Korean conflict 
on broader issues, or te) a combination of these two, 


From the local standpoint, intelligence data have indicated 
that on the basis of military factors alone the Communist camp 


SECRET 
Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000400020002-2 


Approved For Release 3000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S010114900400020002-2 
SECRET 3 


Shear Mae not under strong compulsions to effect an early 
end to the fighting. Communist forces in Korea at present 
appear to retain the capability not only to fight a war of 
attrition for a prolonged period, but also to launch new 
limited offensives. It has been clear for some time, how- 
ever, that without a substantial addition in Soviet support, 
particularly large-scale air power, the Cormunists have no 
prospect of victory in Korea. Moreover, there have been 
numerous indications that the Korean operations are increas~ 
ingly straining both China and North Korea. Chinese PW in- 
terrogations have revealed extensive and growing economic 
and peed gery problems in North Korea, food shortages at the 
front and in Manchuria, labor shortages in China growing 
weakness in the North Korean army and a decided inpact of 
battle casualties on the Chinese army. Reports from persons 
present in China have also noted increasing pressures on the 
regime, particularly in the economic sphere, and measures ree 
cently adopted by the Peiping government tend to support 
these observations, 


It is entirely possible, therefore, that the Kremlin has 
decided for strictly local reasons that continuation of the 
Korean aggression is costing more than it is worth and must 
be written off as were the guerrilla campaign’ in Greece and 
the Berlin blockade. The Kremlin might calculate that the 
prestige loss involved in such a write-off would in part be 

_ compensated by these local gains: (a) the USSR being freed 
of the obligation of giving increasing support to military 
operations; (b) reduction of strains that have apparently ex- 
listed for some time in relations between the Chinese and North 
Koreans and may be developing between Peiping and Moscow; 
(c) relief of pressures oh the North Korean regime and pre- 
servation of North Korea as a Communist puppet, something that 
might not be possible at a later date without heavy Soviet 
sacrifices; and (d) relief of China from pressure generated by 
the Korean effort. 


In addition to local consideration, or even if local con- 
siderations appear to the Kremlin far less serious than 
suggested above, Moscow may have reached the conclusion that 

he Korean conflict was becoming a heavy liability in the prose- 
cution of its campaign to. weaken the Western countries. A con- 
clusion to this effect would not of course imply a decision to 
abandon or modify this campaign itself. ‘This campaign currently 
centers on preventing the US from developing a power system ade- 
quate to counter=balance the power system of the USSR through: 


SECRET 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000400020002-2 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S0101 14900400020002-2 
. ‘SECRET 4 


(a) prevention of Cerran and/or Japanese rearmament, (b) preven- 
tion of the transformation of the North Atlantic bloe into an 
erfective military organization; and (d) discouraging US re- 
armament. : 


The Kremlin has since the war appeared to view local issues 
in the context of the global situation. It has appeared to 
tallor particular policies to what it considered .t requirements 
of the over-all power complex. It has even given up immediate 
advantages, or failed to exploit apparent local st 0 php cabal 
when adverse effects on its general strategic position appeared 
likely to result, 


It has obviously been clear to l'’oscow that the Korean eon- 
flict serves as an important stimulus to Vestern, particularly 
US, rearmament efforts, including Western efforts to transform 
the North Atlantic Treaty organization into an effective military 
instrument. Hoscow also must be aware that the Korean situation 
has strongly influenced US policy toward Japan. Moreover, the 
MacArthur hearings covld have left the Kremlin under no iiiusions 
as to the danger that the Korean conflict might spread and present 
to the USSR the alternative of having either to intervene itself, 
thus precipitating a general war under circumstances perhaps not 
te its choosing, or accept the risk of a major Communist military 
defeat in Asia. 


From the global standpoint, recent events, both Korean and 
none-Korean, have appeared to leave Moscow in a situation where it 
Was not only receiving no dividends in the way of checking the 
Western power build-up from its various pressure operations, but 
was actually contributing to this build-up, Tithin the last few 
months Moscow has been faced with these adverse developments: 

(a) the US has crystallized its plans for a Japanese treaty, which 
the USSR considers a major step toward Japanese rearmament, and hes 
apparently secured necessary Japanese and Allied agreement to these 
plans; (b) the Western powers stood firm in the face of Soviet 
maneuvers at Paris and broke off discussions rather than yield to 
Soviet eee (c) the West German covernment demonstrated, througl: 
its handling of the Cormunist plebiscite campaign, that it is 
capable of dealing with disruptive efforts of local Communists: 
(d) the French and Italian elections resulted in no improvement in 
the Set pear tetas oe! af commune te in those asd) (e) thera 

Ss at lea ° 
Te nstn of & anieled western asay un er American Soumana, "UP yc EhS> 
admission of Greece and Turkey to the North Atlantic organization 
has become a distinct possibility; (g) American overseas bases have 
been strengthened and extended; (h) the MacArthur hearings clearly 
revealed that US 


SECRET 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000400020002-2 


Approved For Release, 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S010144000400020002-2 


r SECRET 5 

concern over a postauee early conflict with the USSR was very 
real and that this concern was responsible for the sense of 
urgency in US mobilizations; (1) US mobilization itself began 
to gather impressive momentum. 


The current trend may well have been appraised by the 
Kremlin as presaring a marked adverse change in the relative 
military power position, particularly the beginning of large- 
scale seperate and German rearmanent. -If so the Kremlin may 
have decided to adopt a policy of superficial accommodation 
in the hope that the stimulus for Western rearmament and 
Western unity would be reduced. If so a Korean settlement 
will almost certainly be but a phase of a general campaign 
tpn ae involve new Soviet approaches in other areas of 

spute. 


It appears lixety that among the first cf such new epprosenee 
would be a Kperfin attempt to secure favorable consideration of 
its peettfon on a Japanese treaty. Woscow and Peiping may have 
eaiculated that to end the Korean war would drastically alter 

the political climate in the Far East and probably cause many 
nations to be more receptive to Soviet proposals. 


Another move for a CFY meeting on European problems also 
appears a likely possibility. Moscow has not yet officially re- 
acted to the breakeoff of the Paris meeting and has still not 
rejected the renewed US invitation to hold a meeting without 
further preliminary discussion. Soviet propaganda has emphasized 
that the Vest has made impossible a meeting, but officially the 
Kremlin still has complete freedom of action. 


Renewed Kremlin efforts for "negotiated" settlements will 
not necessarily carry with them any important shift in the posi- 
tions that Moscow has steadfastly adhered to. There may be a 
studied effort to give an impression of reasonableness and 
willingness to compromise, and to create a general atmosphere of 
good-will, possibly even with offers of attractive but to the 
USSR unessential adjustments. But it cannot be assumed that the 
Kremlin will be willing to yield any major advantage it now has 
in order to secure agreement. 


If Moscow does resort to such a "reconciliation" campaign 
and this fails to produce the desired objectives, parts curarey 
the prevention of effective German and Japanese rearmament, the 
Kremlin will find itself close to the point where it will have 
to choose between embarking on a genuine retreat or resorting to- 
a new use of force, 


SECRET 
Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000400020002-2 


i 


