WHERE 


PUBLISHED F'yongyang, Seoul 


DATE 


PUBLISHED 16 Jan = 16 Feb 1951 SUPPLEMENT TO 


LANGUAGE Korean 


SOURCE Newspapers as indicated. . 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 - CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400306-7 


Hei 1 
{ CLASSIFICATION $oB-CoR-E-r SETS! 
yj CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORI 50X1-HUM 
; INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD ho. 
Korea DATE OF 
reel INFORMATION 1951 
SUBJECT Soriological « Propaganda, educaticn 
HOW DATE DIST, /4dul 1951 
PUBLISHED Daily newspapers / 


NO. OF PAGES 5 ; 
i 
{ 


REPORT NO. 


_ THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


NORTH KOREAN GOVERNMENT ANNOWUNCES CABINET DECTSION NQ_192 | 


TO ESTABLISH SCHOOLS FOR ORPHANS “OF HEROES 


According to Cabinet Decision No 192, the Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea is planning to establish special institutions to 
give vocational training to the daughters and military training to 
the sons of the soldiers, guerrillas, and North Kov-ean patriots who 
were killed during the Korean War. Ostensibly created for humani-~ 
tarian reasons, the main purpose of the institutes, as explicitly 
stated in the introduction of the cabinet announcement, is to pro- 
tect, rear, and educate these children at the expense of the state 
in a healthy and whclesome manner to guarantee that they grow up 
into excellent leaders of the state. 


The number of such orphans is not indicated, but the fact that 
the program calis for a state-wide undertaking indicates its sig- 
nificance. The newspapers devoted generous portions of their front 
pages to the news for a considerable period, giving the reactions of 
workers, soldiers, and their wives. : 


ORPHANS TO BE TRAINED AS FUTURE RED LEADERS -. Seoul, Haebang Ilbo, 29 Jan 51 


The Cabinet of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea announced Cabinet 
Decision No 192, dated 13 January 1951, in the name of Premier Kim I]l-<song, 
providing the establishment of orphanages, technical schools, and military 
schools, collectively called “Institutes for Orphan Children of the Members 
of the People's Army, Partisans, and Patriots,” who sacrificed their lives in 
the war for liberation of the Fatherland. According to the Cabinet Decision, 
the purpose of creating the institutions is for the state to “protect the ore 
phaned children of the men and women who have died for the cause of the state, 
and to rear and educate these children at the expense of the state ina healthy 
and wholesome manner to guarantee that they grow up into excelient leaders of 
the state and serve the state and the people as indispensable workers." In 
substance, Cabinet Decision No 192 reads as follows: 


aa 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 . CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400306-7 [aan 


at 


17 of 


Sanitized Copy A ) : ) a 
Py “P 0400306-7 
| 


50X1-HUM 


1. There shall be entabdlished orphanages and elementary schools in 
Seoul, Pyongyang, and all the provinces in the People's Republic, and mili- 
tary schools for boys and technical schools for girls in major districts, 
for the orphan children of the state heroes. 


2, The orphan children of the state heroes, age 3 to 6, shall enroll 
in orpharages; age 7 to 12 years in elementary schools; boys age 13 to 18 in 
military schools; girls age 13 to 18 in the girls' technical schools to be 
established throughout the state. 

4, The above institutions shai: be named after outstanding state heroes 
in their respective localities, subject to approval by the Cabinet, in each 
instance. 


in. The military schools for boys shall be placed under the jurisdiction 
of the Ministry of National Defense. the orphanages, eLementa y schools, and 
girls’ technical schools under the Ministry of Education 


5. he above ministries must submit to the Cabinet the plans and the 
pudget required for opening the institutes by 20 February 1951, and the drafts 
of regulations governing these institutes by 10 March IO5i. 


6. The ministers concerned and the chairmen of the provincial people's 
committees (Seoul and P'ycngyang city people's committees included) are charged 
with organization of preparatory committees for the creation and inauguration 
of the institutes by 1 April 1991. 


Kim Il-song, Premier 

Democratic Peaple's Republic of Korea 
P' yongyang 

13 January 1951 


EDITORIAL SAYS DECISION BOOSTS SOLDIERS! MORALE »» Seoul, Haebang Ilbo, 16 Feb 51 


: On 13 January the Democrati¢ People's Republic of Korea announced Cabinet 
Decision No 192 providing for establishment of institutions for orphan children 
of state heroes who sacrificed their Lives for the liberation of the Fatherland. 


Previously, the "Institute for the Bereaved Families of the Revolutionists" 
was established in a suburb of P'yongyang, for the purpose of guiding, rearing, 
and educating as future leaders of the people the children of the revolutionists 
who died for the state. 


Within the 7 months since the beginning of the mighty war for the liberation 
of the Fatherland, many heroic members of the People's Army, partisans, and the 
members of the Korean Labor Party have become victims of the relentless bullets 
and barbaric atrocities committed by the vicious American aggressors. The names 
and exploits of these men and women wil) shine forever 1n the history of our 
country, Thus Decision No 192 states, "protecting and guiding the orphan chile 
dren of these men and women by the state and rearing them in a healthyané whale- 
some manner to assure that they grow up into excellent Leaders of the state and 
serve the Fatherland and people as indispensable workers is an important national 
task and noble obligation of all the people." 


By doing 80, we can consolidate the home front and boost the morale of our 
fighting men and can thus expect a speedy victory in the war of liberation for 
the Fatherland. : 


aPoa 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/08/25 : CIA-RD 


wae 5 af 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/08/25 - CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400306-7 
r J 


S-B-CoR-E-T ; 50X1-HUM 


The present Cabinet decision has already brought noteworthy reactions 
from among the fighting men at the front, who, knowing the warm consideration 
and ,atriotic measure thus taxen by our state, veneved. their pledge to fight 
to the last drop of their plood for the cause of our Fatherland, Likewise, 
the people on the home front, enthusiastically supporting this noble decision, 
rose to support the program. 


The importance of this progran cannot be overemphasized. It is of nae 
tional significance, As the decision states, “it is the noble obligation of 
all the perple," therefore, the same obligation lies upon *he people in the 
recently liberated areas 45 on those in the northern haif of the People's 
Republic. 


It is, therefore, important that we as citizens of the People's Republic 
in the newly liberated Seoul, do ovr wtmost to support the program for suce 
cessful implementation of the decision, $o that the members af the People's 
Army, partisans, and the patriots can keep up their morale, display more 
heroism, and fight without worrying about their families, and thus hasten 
the ultimate victory. 


WORKERS SUPPORT DECISION ~~ Ptyongyang, Nodong Sinmun, 72 Jan 51 
Comments on Cabinet Decision No !92 were made by the following workers: 
Pak Walesu, & worker of XK factory, P'yongyang, atated: 


"Tt ig our noble duty as citizens of the People's Republic to protect 
and educate the orphaned children of the heroes who gallantly sacrificed 
their blood for the cause of the Fatherland. 1 fully realize the signifi- 
cence of the program which is to be undertaken on a state-wide scale." 


Kim Song-yong, @ farmer in Kangso~kun, P*yongan Namdo said: 


‘r feel it is extremely appropriate for the state to undertake to edu- 
cate and train heroes! orphans as the future leaders of our country. It is 
our noble obligation to help establish the institutes and implement the pro- 
gran." 


Yi Yong-ch'ol, a merchant in Sinuiju asserted. 


"T agree with the idea wholeheartedly, for it means future security for 
the People's Republic. It is also an example of true democracy in action i 


Thus, everybody not only agrees with the program put pledges to support 
it .. the end so that it will develop into a magnificent undertaking partic- 
‘ ipated in py the people throughout the land. 


OFFICERS, SOLDIERS PRAISE CABINET DECISION ©» Piyongyang, Nodong Siumun, 
16 Jan 51 


Yun Ung-mun, an army officer, made the following comment on Cabinet De- 
cision No 192. 


Mis decision is the e« 9° 3sion of warm consideration of General Kim Tle 
song to protect the welfare i the people. We are extraordinarily moved and 
gratified. The decision points to the fact that the security of our families 
ig insured end the future of our children and the state guaranteed. As an 

; officer of the People's Army, I say that we can now fight, without reserva- 
#1 tion and epprehension about the welfare of our families, to the last drop of 
our blood. 


ow Be 
SEC RET 


ae ee 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400306-7 


Sanitized Copy Appro 


7 


Vv 


ed for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-008094000600400306-7 
i | 


SEGRET 


-8-6-R-E fF 50X1-HUM 


_P'yongyang, Nodong Sinmun, 19 Jan 51 


qu Tong-ho, an srmy officer, said, "T am now at. X Front where the anni~ 
hilation-of the enemy remnants is in progress. The announcement of the Cabi-~ 
nec decision founding special institutions for the orphaned children of heroes 
wag most heartening news to the officers and men at the front. Thus, immensely 
encouraged, we have renewed wr fighting will. Only the people's regime, which 
always strives for happinesu snd freedom of the people and for eternal prosper= 
ity of the People's Republic, car bestow such benefits on us. In a humble re~ 
turn, we pledge to sacrifice our Lives in the valiant strugeie for tndependence 


of our Fatherland." 


P'yongyang, Nodong Sinmun, 18 Jan 51 


Kim Song»sun, @ combatant in the People's Anny said: “Previously, Cabl- 
net Decision No 45 conferred upon us the privileges of state benefits and spe 
cial wartime allowances for the men in the armed forces Now, upon our deaths, 
our families will be entitled to various benefits under the new Cabinet dect~ 
sion. The thought moves us with a tremendous feeling of gratification and sat- 
isfaction, together with 4 renewed realization of the responcibilities of our 
missions. For such benefactions we can but humbly compensate with our flesh 
and blood for the cause of the Fatherland and the people, and this we pledge 
as members of the People's Army and as citizens of the People's Republic.” 


Ptyongyang, Nodong Sinmun, eb Jan 51 


Pak Ch'un-won, a combatant in the Peoplete Army stated: "Always cognizant 
of the welfare and happiness of the people, the government of the People's Re- 
public has decided to establish institutes for the orphans of the heroes. This, 
along with the previously founded Instit ‘te for the Bereaved Families of the 
Revolutionists, is a symbolic manifestation of the tenet of the People's Repub- 
jic that everything is for the welfare of the people." 


WTVES COMMENT ON CABINET DECISION - Ptyongyang, Nedong Sinmun, 16 Jan 51 


Kim Sinepok, wife of a soldier said: “my husband is now at X Front fight= 
ing for the cause of the Fatherland to exterminate the vicious and brutal Ameri~ 
can invaders and Syngman Rhee traitors, Cabinet Decision No 192 has increased 
the significance of the heroic struggle for freedom and sovereign independence 
of the Fatherland in which my husband is now engaged, Jt is good news, guaran- 
teeing our security and the future of our children endorsed by the state. I 
aid not hesitate to tell my husband at the front not to worry about us back # 
home, but to fight to the last érop of blood." 


Pyongyang, Nodong Sinmun, 18 Jan 51 


So Sun, wife of a partisan states: "My husband is a member of the partisans 
fighting heroically behind the enemy in X area, He and his fellow partisans will 
guarantee, as the state has guaranteed us the welfare of our children, that they 
will fulfill the expectations of the state and the people in the execution of 
their mission in the South. Meanwhile, as a token of gratitude for what the state 
has done for us, we shall support the program py doing our utmost to bring up our 
children to be the future leaders of the state.” , 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400306-7 


e 


west se ‘ 


‘Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/08/25 i CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400306-7 
r ‘ ; ae | 


7 ; SECRET 


$-E-C-R-E-T 


50X1-HUM 


Ftyongyang, Nodong Sinmun, 2h Jan 51 


a deceased member of the ere ae ep med 
4lled in action in the battle of Naktong River. ow I entru 

ee care and wholesome upbringing of my i pag lan A et 

they grow up, they will be the defenders of the People's eieer fpr ue 

to the last drop of their blood to revenge the murderers . < nas — 

beloved father. Have them grow up to be good fighters 11 : is 5 

solace their father's spirit on earth by carrying out his desires. 


: Kim Yon-uk, wife of 


~ END ~ 


: 
i 
E 


=~ 5 
S=E-C-R-E-T 


= oo om on 


SECRET 


Badan Ps ita Sata A Line siento ain cine ann 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 - CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400306-7 Al 


