CLASSIFICATION - CONFIDENTIAL —— 
Approved RORNRGIARSENZ EDU GRIMCE CHQHRIQNS2-0045 7ROPDRIOND Pag 
ATIC . . 
COUNTRY Korea man g DATE DISTR. 1 auG 51 
| , , OF PAGES 3 
SUBJECT. Political Moves of the Pro-Soviet Bloc in NO. OF PAGES 
the North Korean Government . 
PLACE | | | NO. OF ENCLS. 
E 25X1A (LISTED BELOW) a 
ACQUIRED | | a 
DATE OF : 25X1C SUPPLEMENT TO wevstene 2OXIX 


INFO. 


Le 


Zo 


4. 


REPORT NO. 


The Koree Labor Party, which was offi clally composed ef ermal. mambers of Norta 
and South Korean Labor "arty versonnel, was actuslly heevilr wed rhto? an the 
‘North Korean side, Although two of ths deputy cheirmen, PAx Hon~yong and YE 
Sung-yop, represented the South Korean Labor party (Sklw), the North Korean 
deputy chairman Ho Kari handled all business of importance. In both tha Care 
tral Committee sad the Supvlementary Commiitee of the merged labor partieg, 
the North Koreans maintained a ratio of three to one over the Sauth Koreana 
by reserving most of the seats (40 and 20 respectively) for delegates of the 
farmers! and workers’ organizations. 


A concession wes made by HO Kawi to the “native” Communist eProup* in the ape 
pointment of KIM Il (f° vs ), chairman of the South Hangyong Provinces Con: 
mittee, as head of the orgenization seution., When HO Kx =i vas promoted fron 
head of the NKLp bepervision conmittee to wice-chairmenchin of the narty, he 
made CHANG Suemydng oA if #4 ), former chairmen. of the North Hamey or: Frow- 
ince Committee, his succesgzor. CHANG, who had been in jail in Taejon, was not: 
Particularly well-known, but he was a native Communist who had access to KIM 
Tl-adng's groupl KIM [1 was 2 closes friend of CHANG, 


Propaganda within the varty was also controlled by a KIM il-achg supnorter. 
PAK Chang-ole ( ), former propaganda chief of the Ukrainian Commund et 
Party, hed been oné Gf the highest ranicing Koreans in the USSR. He was sent 
‘to Korea about 1947 with Somprehensive instructions from the USS te, take 
over the land reforn oregran, which had heen botched by © Kies& ( 4 (ar 
and Manage it. after completing the land reforn work, PAK traneferrad So $L6 


STropagania asction to support KIM Il-gdng in his efforts to neutralize voth the 
“Rative Communist and the pro-Chinese faction. KIM Chbngeman { / z' 


447), 4 
pro=Chineze, was removed from the vrovaanda section te becone chia ‘of! the 
Stef? training school of tha nary « 


Both o Ki=s%, representing the SKLP, and KIM Mu-chong, the strongest ti cure 


in the Chinese faction, were removed from imnortent post Sions over the Land 
reform program.*®* dither dwadere not achoring te the Soviet bloc were chout 


CLASSIFI CATH ON 
“Tae seo 


BG NAVY 
De] air 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370008-1 


5. 


“Ge 


Te 


8. 


: Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R00790 
CONFI DENTI AL 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


29X1A 


wm oo 


the seme time relgg:ted frou invortant nerty nositions to costs as profes= 
sors at KIM Il-song University or the North Zoreen Agriculture] College, or : 
to less influential party jobs. Among those so demoted were HAN Pin ( He LAs d» 
deputy chairman of the Chine-Korea Indanendence Allience, who was releesed’ * 
from the narty because of allezed unsatisfactory handing of afinances and be= 
came a professor at KIM Ilesdhg University; YI Sun-kin { Ee ge +e d, aide of 
PAK Hon-yone, remgved as chief of the azriculture and foristry section; CH'OE — 
Yong-tal ( & #4 ), formiator of the orth Korean sudjcieal orgarization, 
removed as nie vee of Justice; and YI Kang=i & FAI }, removed as chief 
of the foreign section. They were renlaced with some nafive Communists, with 
the net result thet not one innortent nesition was outside the fre=Ssviet bloc. 


fo dispose commletely of any South Korean or Chinese symnathizers within the 
varty, the esbler leaders who might have threatened the controlling nower ware 
selected for guerrilla warfare in South Korea, where their lives would almost 
certainly be sacrificed. However ugsubted to guerrilla warfare, these lead= 
ers were disnatched; YI Hyo=che { 5 & te ), former chairman of the South 
Korean Youth Alliance, was killed néar Sanc ok, end the philosopher PAK Chi-yu 


Cm. a i) was Icilled et Odee~san, 


With the commencement of the war in June 1250, conflicts within the Korea 
Labor varty were naturally intensified, as both pro=Sovles end South Korean 
flements fought for rule in the oecunied nortions of South Korea. PAK H8n-y dng, 
who had all but lost his underground organization in South Korea with the ar= 
West of his azents KIM Sameyong ( 2 by ) and YI Chnsha ( & # sa ween, 
was @ager to ree-sstablish a nolitigel bag@ in the south and ol Snned to attach 
his men as political officers with North Korean military units. His niang 
were frustrated by HO Kael, who claimed sole charge of dianatching nolitical 
organizers_to South Korea, with the arguments that because there were ro in= 
surrections of South Koreans in conjunction with the North Korean adwanee, no 
SKLP organization existed in the south; and that exiled South Koreens in the 
north would be discredited to theiz friends at home and could not be counted 
on for such invortant missions as nolitical organization. 


The controversy over contrel of the south delayed the selection of a chairman 
for the Seoul City Comittee. Eventually two former SKLP leaders, YY Swnpvon 
( 4 «dé R@ ) and KIM Ungenin ( Az. TA)» were annointed chaixman and denuty 
chairman respectively, but all other dnvortent ~Fovincial end local nositions 


_ were reserved for the vro=Soviet faction's nominees. Qualification tests for 


office were all handled by the MKLP pro-Soviet Grogan. There continued to be 
differences on nolicy within the southern ocersettion government, vertisulariy 
with regard to the treatment of South Korean Communi stse The SKLP group felt 
that Communists whe had backalid but confessed their error end reaffirmed 

their allegiance to the party should ve granted amnesty and used in the zoey» 
ernment. The voro-Soviet groun, on the other hand, wanted to jail mest of the 
doubtful Communists, To vreserve some sort of orgenisation of the SKLE supe 


porters, PAK H&nes he provosed to organize then into e cuerrilla unit, which 


included even his most imoortant mene He was nermitted to do so, ginee KIN 
Tl=stng already had hic friend KIN Ch%aek as front Lins conmenisr, and nartly 
since the war in South Korea was not procecding as the North Koreans had ex= 
pected. 


After the succession of inklitery movemants resulting in the UY withdrawal to 
the south in late October, the Koréa Labor Party required a conmlete reorgan= 
ization. They orgenized a series of "self-criticisn® metings, in which the 
blame for the military situetion was oushed off on the noaSeviet groun. The 
party leaders, In an official conferense on 23 Decerber, ***** not cnly vurged 
KIN Muechdng end HO Song-Paek but accused the SKLP of failure to summors the 
North Korean action. ‘The SKLP d4d not admit the charge bai chose as acanegoat 
the chairmen of the North Kangwon Province Conuni ttee, whe wes exnelled., The 
provincial chairmen in all areas vere amraised, end those of the pre-Soviet 
group were commended. No difference of oninion wes vernisted from any other 
faetion, 


CONFI DENTE ai 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370008-1 


. Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370008-1 


CONFIDENTIAL 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


25X1A 
= 3a 


20814 a... The principal factions of the Korean Comminists are 
the pro-Soviet, the Chinese-trained (Yenan) group, and the native 
Communists who remained in Korea and were not trained abroad, 


Comment, According t Kang-kuk was an active 
ch-ySng for the South Korean Labor Party immediately 
after the Second World War. He was also a member of the North Korean. 
People's Canmittee, He was accused of disloyalty to the party line 
and deviationism; the Korean Cammunists felt that he had strayed from 
the party line. Because of these charges of disloyalty, he was 
required to take a period of study and reorientation before being 
received into the party councils agains therefore, he was sent to 
Moscow in the late fall of 1949 for a retraining course in the 
Communist ideology. 


25X1A 
it ME 2: Both these agents were arrested by the ROK police and 
executed Sefore the evacuation of Seoul in June 1950, 


bal a... A detailed account of thi i and the unofficial. 
25X1A conference which preceded it is given 


29X1A 


25xta~ 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001/1 2/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370008-1 


29X1A 


Approved For Release 209:/4@/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370008-1 
s . 25X1A 
CEMPAL CMCLLTANC™ AG “IGF: 


ATTAC. ETE k | LS 


SICRST 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370008-1 


