‘ ad 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400587-6 


r — 
woe te ee 
CLASSIFICATION CONF IvENT LAL 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT » S0X1-HUM 
INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO, -- 
COUNTRY Worth Korea, DATE OF 
. INFORMATION i 
Political - Labor Party functions mee 
DATE DIST. Aug 1951 
Monthly periodical Sere 
Pyongyang NO. OF PAGES 4 
PUBLISHED 30 Nov 1946 
SUPPLEMENT TO 
LANGUAGE Korean REPORT NO. 
| 


THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE WATIONAL DEFENSE 
OF THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF ESPIONAGE ACT SO 
U. 8. C.. DL AMD 32, AS AMEMDED. 175 TRANSMISSION OR THE REVELATION 
OF 1TS CONTENTS IN ANY MANNER 70 AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON 1S PRO: 
HIBITED BY LAW, REPRODUCTION OF THIS FORM 1S PROWIGITED. 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


SOURCE Kungoja (Worker), published py, Nodong Sinmun Sa, Vol IT, 1946. 


~ 


FUNCTIONS CF SHOP CELLS 
OF THE NORTH KOREAN LABOR PARTY 


The shop cells are the foundation of the WKLP (North Korean 
Labor Party). Their basic responsibilities include: (1) influenc- 
ing the public by exemplary work; (2) recruiting ond assimilating 
new members; and (3) indoctrinating the members. Except for the 
cadres, the political and cultural levels of the NKIP members are 
pelow the prescribed standard. The local party wnits above cells 
are cautioned against neglecting the close guidance of the shop 


calls, 


Shop Cells us the Foundation of NKLP 


The NKLP (North Korean Labor Party) is composed of progressive elements 
of a vest working public -- laborers, farmers, intelligentsia, etc. At the 
pase of its organization are the shop cells, This is the distinguishing : 
characteristic differentiating the NKLP from other democratic parties in Korea. ' 


In the process of establishing a democratic nation and in carrying out 
the NKLP has operated through the shop cells 


its various democratic functions, 
Recently the NKLP 


which are rooted in the large class of working people. 
carried out a great democratic election sponsored by the Nortin Korean Provi- 
gional People’s Committee, by mobilizing, organizing, 6nd educating many thou- 
sends of nenparty members through shop cells in each election area, The NKLP 
also obtained good results in other important activities of the stop cells, 
These tasks consisted in carrying out democratic land reform, labor protection 
law, laws on equality of sexes, taxes in kind, and nationalization of indus- , 
tries, The NKLP has led the vast working peuple toward the establishment. of 
the Democratic Front for Unification of the Fatherland, in cooperation with 
various democratic parties and social groups, in the course of carrying out 


its. political policies. 


aol 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL 
STATE X[new XI NSRB DISTRIBUTION 
ARMY [ajar DC | rer = 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400587-6 oar De 


i 


rc 


. the exemplary work of cell memb 


Responsibilities of Shop Cells 


| 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A00060040 


CONF TOENT LAL 
is aes wee gber or o me - 7 
he roits progre sive laborers and farmers who are actively en- 


gaged in pr ductive activities. The NKLP also attempts to consolidate its 
strength by absorbing progressive intelligentsia who are actively engaged in 
polteiont and cultural activities, and by integrating nonparty street cells 
eae ie na 8 The NKLP reinforces its power by popularizing democratic 
administration, democratic «conomy, and demecratic culture, 411 o 

demanded by the Korean people. : , pee oe 


° 


Fundamentally, the NKLP is an sggregation of shop cells, from which it 
derive: its strength. The party influences and attracts the vast body of work- 
ing people around it by persuading them to emulate the exemplary work of party 
members in the shop cells. In this way, tne party strengthens itself and main- 


tains its growth. 


The activities of the shop celis represent the activities of the party 
itselt. The activities cf the cells develop along the actual function of the 
party, The cell, which is the basic organizational unit of the party, can 
use its own judgment as concerns the matter of organizing party members. 


cells have the right and responsibility of recruiting and accept- 
ing members, collecting party fees, registering and indoctrinating new members, 
instructing and inspecting their activities, reporting their activities to 4 
higher unit, and delivering instructions from higher units to cell members. 

The shop cells attempt to deepen the members "sense of attachment" to the party, 
broaden the esprit de corps, solidify their political concepts, and elevate their 
cultural level. The shop cells ensure unity of the party, close association 
between the party and the masses, and see that theix activities are cerried out 


according to the party line. 


The shop 


The shop cells propagandize the political tenets of the party to the public, 
and educate the public in the party's political strategy and tactics so that 
the public may participate in the establishment of a democratic Korea by rally- 


ing under the party 8 slogens and ten2ts. 


The shop cells are established in factories, mines, railroads, harbors, 
offices, schools, farms, villages, public and semipublic establishments, 4s 
well as on the streets. Membership in the shop cells totals more than 600,000. 


In leading the nonmember masses, the NKLP never imposes its authority over 


them, but guides them patiently end inconspicuously, through demonstrations and 
ers who are rooted deeply in the public. 


asic unit in the organizational form, put 


is also the active agent through which all party activities are conducted. 

The party clearly shows 1t3 aim in fighting for the daily interests of the 
working people. Thus the NKLP todey, with its ultimate goal of accomplishing 
the historic task of building 4 democratic nation, works for the people's 
interests to establish the sovereign independence and. freedom of the Father~ 
Jand. Under these circumstances, the following responsibilities are entrusted 


to each cell and each member of the cell: 


The shop cell is not only the b 


1. Inflvencing Public 


cuccess of its operations according to 
the degree of its success in influencing the public with the basic tenets of 
the party. Consequently, it is 2 prime duty of party members to influence 
the public by constantly taking pogitive actions toward the public. The 
cell <sonferences, attended only by members , are not the means of 


A shop cell must measure the 


Pe en 


CONFIDENTIAL i 
ene ees, 


ac eae 
Ter KF ES 


als 


5 
0587-6 


oC) 


50X1-HUM 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400587-6 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400587-6 = 


‘hegdined? only vhen the cell and its 


chrerygchiebetes live 


eof the public through its sustained. 


members receive the > B 
ganized masses The celis must teach new members 


prestige among the 
the technigue of working among the people. 
e in group a.tivities and un social contacts. 


The new members usvaliy lach ex- 


perienc 
The cells must understand the living conditions cf the public, must 

the degree of its political consclousness 

cloge day-to-day contacts. The calls must study 


r a 
‘ ee 
NP LPENTTAL ake. 50X1-HUM 
{ 
| 


how to make the publi: understand and 4c 


The cells must make all thet: 

thoroughly comprehend thet only with t 
Only by working among the people < 
in organizing, indoctrinating, and leading the masses. 


wbers gain training and experlence 


af THE Memos in 


2, Recruiting and Assimilating New Members 


zations which recruit and assimilate 


The shop celle are the besic organi 
members in the methods 


party members The celle myst constantly train the old 
of recruiting new members Membership recruiting is the basic process of en- H 
larging the party ¢ strength, guaranteeing the party § growth, and. accelerating 

the development of the mass movement. The recruiting of new members is the 


most important duty of the celle and cell members 


2 today are highly favorsble,for 


The social conditions in North kore 
party growth, Greet progress is already teing made in democratic land reform, 
labor Legiziations, «n¢. lagislstion for women. This has stimulated and gusran- 
teed the grovth of democreti: powers 2S egamplified in the rapid development ' 
and above alt, 


of democratic politics, democratic economy, democratic culture, 


of democratic government. 


But, the problem to which the NKELP mast py more careful attention is 

7 of new members, because of the possibility that many qifferent 
elements may infiltrate the party. We must watch out for 

onaecirable pro-dapanese and fascist elements working for 

a the spies employed by iwperiaiistic 

each cell must strictly comply with the 


yew members &5 prescribed by the party regulations » 


the screening 
kinds of reactionsry 
the infiltration of 

the South Korean reactionary camp an 
foreign powers. Bach pasty member and 
procedures of acreening U 


The unity of the party depends on the strength of tre cell life. 
Every cell must concentrate not only on recruiting new members, but also on 
enhancing the political quality of memsers through emphasis on their indoc-~ 
trination. Both the quantity and quality of the members should contribute 
to the growth of the party. 


2, Indoctrinating Members 


The shop cells sre the basic training achocls for party members. Party 
members do not have any other place to receive ideological, functional, or organ- 
izational training, The NKLP is organized by the progressive elements of the 

y working class who generally possess progressive ideals and are able to steer the 
people toward common objectives. However, in the light of the immediate task 
of establishing a nation and the consequent necessity for a broader development 
in mass movement and with the increasing responsibilities of party members, the 
cel] committees must further strengthen the indoctrinstion of party members. 


evel begins with thought education and 
concepts and cultural level. 
levels of NKLP members seem | 
It is the task of 


The indoctrination at the cell 1 
literary education, to enhance members‘ political 
Except for the cadres, the political and cultural 
to be below the standards that present-day Korea calis for. 


-3- 


WW Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400587-6 [NINE 


r 


| 


eeety oo be! 


to aualyss the 


ana how te ¢arve the 


also increase the cultural 
in the party by Syst 


{ i 
' ' moos ft ‘ | a PCN ake 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400587-6 


4 


prifce uvrew of the world, how 
ate creative sbilities, 
The committees must 
3 and exterminate illiteracy 


ta 


ie 
Hberests of the 


level of Lhe party nm 


atye edanestion 


Guiding Cell Life 


The local p 
clearly resogni 1 
Loca. party 


tion. 


policy peculisily sulire 
factories, mines, 
echools, ana vari 


Phe détivities of 
dis celle. To gurde pr 
must know the sacral en 
background, politics 
member, Each locel br 
tion, to know how save 
the party tenets ond 
cies and instructione . 
guidance, do not carry 
higher unit, or merely guide the cell 
cannot svoid the 


an guide the cells properly only when each branch 
iety in which each cell has its founda- 
seas : y adopt the 

124 rooted in 
‘s committees, 


mainivy by now it guides 
jurisdiction, each 1lvcal branch 
evary celi, 33 Well as the social 
cnltural level, 4nd he social contacts of each 
canatentiy wspect the cella under its jurisdic- 


rrving out the propagands and jissemination of 


jenanta, now they interpret and execute the party poli- 
«and how they treat the pub If loca? pranches, in cell 
livery of iasteuctions from & 


of written directive?, then they 
ing the cells Such a tendency 


nv romncot 
os 


fs] 


of 
thear work weyond the ‘de 
a hy means 


unfortunate tendency of neglect 


must be strictly avoided, 


fhe last probler is. that or ce 


The commetise 


antivity 


t hast mal 
the basis of 2 
trends ani the 


purposes. Internaliv, the 
1 


members 
Externe 


The c 
increase f 
reform progr é 
in each peop 


BS SA ae 


and Treats & pr: 

iv, the 
public, consolidate the pub 
growth of the party. 


ell committees in farm? and villages 
arm products, and 


call temmittees. 

anon the organtsed 

ty familar with the 
rs The committees : ¢ 

mylate euiding plans ¢ 

iliv watch the volitical x 


The shop cat 


a 


ertonemig demanis end ws : ne ee = 
macutain the weityv cf the shop 


lity of the 
© and the public. 
party ‘efare the 


prestige of the 


comme. ites s 
cas the party, and stimulate the 


wqust make positive efforts pte) 
: rares in kind, so that the land- 
may acnieve the deat results The committees wiich are rooted 
re and -olteral crgenization must take the. 
+ Tagine end the cultural move- 
» People ¢ Republic 


payment of 


school 


> 


. 


CONE LD 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/25 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000600400587-6 | 


) 


4 


50X1-HUM 


