WEL) at 


25X1A 


CLASSIFICATION = gaaeeprrmrc aL 


Approved For ReleaSiTRAL TELL GENRE RAPT ROO7SORBBARE Hf, 
te ? INFORMATION REPORT op no. 4 mp 
COUNTRY Korea | sopaTE DISTR, 8 AUG 52 
3UBJECT Morth Korean Orphanages NO. OF PAGES 2 
25X1C 3 
PLA NO. OF ENCLS. 
ACQUIRED ws at 3 uw (LISTED BELOW) 
EWe anal | 

DATE OF we ont SUPPLEMENT TO 

5 XNKO. \\ REPORT NO. 


1. 


2. 


4. 


In 1946, orphanages were opened in North Korea under the direction ef the Nine 
istry of Interior polices end local people's committees. In 1947, control of 
these institutions was transferred to the provincial psoplefs committees WOE. 
special instructions from the North Korean Leber Party. ‘there were ahout five 
orphanages in each of the lorger cities and, in theory, one in seach county 
Al}. orphans were supposed to be placed in these officiel orphanages. Lovger 
institutions held clictvsly over o lwxdreé and enaller inet2tutions apprerl= 
mately thirty orphans. 


about 80 percent of the oe were gent to primary schools, the reat ta 
high achocle or even colleze. ‘Within the orphenage thay wore supposed to fol~ 
low the organization syetem of their respactive schools. ‘Thoy were instructed 
to hold meetings end discuss their problens, reaching decisions by majority 
vote. Orphans were allowed to criticize the dirsetor and omployees of the 
orphanage and report on their errors. They were themselves giren indoctrins- 
tion at the orphanage at well az at school, the mein elements of the Seaching 
being unconditional subjection to the orphanage organization, encouragement 
of class struggle and severing ef all family attachmente, worship of Stalin 
and KIN Tleeeng, and firm ecxtin~eapi tali et views, with especial rejection of 
the Republic of Korea. 


Under the supervision of the Labor Party, orpheneges were financed by tha North 
Korean national treasury. Sach inmate was allowed food st the official ax 
change rates of the North Xsrean cooyeratives, counting a mek cf rice at 369 
North Korean won and side-dishet at 900 won, with a totcl of 960 won per pore 
gon per month. Clothing was mmpplie? free; all wore dark blus uniforns mads 
of North Korean cloth. 


RBeys ond girle were kent in separate sections. After completing their school 
education, orphans were allowed to atay on st the orphanages if they wished. 
If any of them left without authorization, however, the director of the insti- 
tution was severely criticized and punished for dereliction of duty. In 
choosing work after leaving school, little latiinle wae pormitted: about 7O 
percent of the orphans went inte the army, the rest to party staff achocls to 
be trained for ths State Security Buresa or the Ministry of Interior police. 


letter of 16 October i 
Director of Centra! Intell ge: 
Archivist cf the Unit 


Approved onRReleasg, 2001/04/19 : CIR- pease 300360011-8 


Cc: 


Approved For Release 2001/04/19 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900360011-8 


25X1A 35, ee 


CRETRAL INTRILIGENCE AGEXCT pO 


aD 


5B. A special orphenage at lNanggyongdae (7225-09, 39639), called the Revoluticncry 
Orphans? School, accepted not only orphans but also children of North Korean 
revolutionaries. It was esteblished in 1946 fer the purpose of edveating pron- 
4sing children as future leaders. It accomodated 470 boys and girls and gave 
elementary and secondary education, onereting on subsidies fron the national 
treasury. After comleting secondary education, students could choose theiy 
own colleze or university for further study. 


6. When the United tations forces cévanced into North Korea, most orphanage em 
ployees withdrew northward with the retreating orth Koreen troops. Orohan 
boys, however, were left behind with careful instructions to note ad keep 
track of persona who coonereted with the ROK and United “Netions forces. The 
boys, who had heen well indoctrineted ducing their training vith the necessity 
of renorting anything suspiciovs to the State Security Bureau or the Ministry 
of Intericr police, proved efficient at observing persons sympathiazing or co- 
operating with the United Neticns forces. 


7, <A chert of the relation of the orphanage to the governnent organization is es 


follows: 
Gentrel Committee of the North Korean Ministry 
North Korean Labor Perty of Education 


Provincial Bureax of 
EHducation 


City and Gounty Bureaus 
of Education 


Nureery 
rm by a conference of ~ (directed by the Min> 
its inmates istry of Public Health) 
. Director 
Orphan's Relatives Admini strative Indoctrination 
Staff Staff 
ae 

Orphans 


attendins cell meetings at their respective schoola 
ond also at the ornhanase 


Approved For Release 2001/04/19 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900360011-8 


