TAR MOY TREY SOA E yaw Tf, 


CBIAGEBINS2-00457RBUPIIE MIMO 


¢€ 


ss Approved For'Helédise 2004418 
MTELtObaK yp INFORMATION REPORT cp no. ee 
COUNTRY Korea a | DATE DISTR. 9 AUG 61 | 
SUBJECT orth Korean Regulations aurtae the Gscupation | NO. OF PAGES: | Z | 
of Seoul . ; a 
PLACE - 


) 5X1A | NO. OF ENCLS. 
ACQUIRE! — (LISTED BELOW) 
DATE OF | 25X10 SUPPLEMENT TO 

INFO, EPORT NO 


: ¥v 4, ee me , Bena 
1. On 14 Jenuery, CHONG Ch’ dieu (71 7-4), comendent of the seoul Carribeded 
, ssoed the folklewing orders to men under his comnends - : om 


ao fli unita renaining in Seaul should be evacuated te the city ovburba. The 
_ heeds of the Garrison and Police Affairs” Department should eve to it thet 
ne unis remains within the confines of the chty without sposifie approval 
of the garrigon commander, The heads of the Garrison end Police Affairs 
Gepartnents thould conduct on immediate investigation of the varlous unity 
stationed within the elty. If a unite must remain within the city for a. 
short time for geome apoctal reagor, 14 must obtain the garrison commander's 
approvel end register with thea Poliee affairs Department. 


» ALL unht commanders and police heads should a66 to 1% that their men da 
not commit such. diserderly acts at searching civilinn homee withous offle 
clal euther$zation, etealing, ate. In principle, no coldier should be 
allowed to leave his camp in the daytime. In face tion must be Alepatched 
on special errands, a group of at least three men should be orgonized and 
sent out under a leader, , ; 


o Patrole within the city should be intensified, and soldiers valine ebowt 
the Glty without authorization should be stepped. Soldiers mist, moreover, 
be strictiy prohibited from entering merkete. Only members of the rear 
are orga moy enter markets, and they must not try te purchase anything | 
forcibly from the people with North Korean currency. The Police affaira J 
Department should deal rigidly with those men who do not have their mie 
forms on coreectly end who de net chsorve social atiguette and should set. 

Up a prison, to be located within the Polies Affales Department of the 
Garrison Headquarters. sad ’ —_ 


3 


a. The Garrison Department should strengthen night patrols so ay to preserve. 
_ law end ovder within the city at night and prevent unruly elements fron 
setting fires to buildings. In particular, the Police Affeira Devartnent 
should do its utmost to expose immediately enemies trying to infiltrate 
anto the city dleguised dn the uniform of the People’s Aruy. 


_____ GLASSIFICATIG 


7 gpeangatam eat pt trade enema Alte NR tt at est 


Ths document is hereh reg: iz: 
CONFIDENTIAL in aed nour 
letter Of 18 October 1978 from the 
Director of Central Intelligence to th 
Archivist. of the United States, : 


Appydired FardReteage 2991/12/04 : CIAARDP82-0 


Ak 
hubba 


th 


. 
Bo 


29X1A 


\ ’ Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370001-8. 
, ee -  25X1A . 
CRRPEAL InGeELIOMce AGENCY om — 


oR 


i 


6. Witain the various units, strict precautionary measures should be tolcer 
ageinet the outbreck of reneliion, and the heal of to Police Affsire ne 
partnent should make a ¥emular check on the motter. He ghowld elao direct 
the deconcentration end camouflace of militery auniiee end innose a rigid 
gontrol on deytine vehicular traffic. 


#. The heed of the Police Affairs Depertment ehould colleborate with the head 
of the Gayrison Depestnent in asstiening a soecific alz raid shelter to the 
people in erch district. In case all shelters in a given district have 
been token over by a wnit for its own use, 4t is the duty of the head of 
the Garrisen roles ale to uake the necessary arrangements so that at 
Teast one sieiter ie veserved for civilian use. He should also errange 
with the pertinent tae cary offaire orgen for the guarding of civilien 
shelters by people's self-defense unite. 


@. when a unit is $o be stationed tomporarily within the city under the gare- 
#ison commailer'y approval, the cease should go through the City People's 
Gomumattee eid ghe unit should be stationed in the snot deslLenated by the 
Gonmittive. Arbitrary choosing of location is nrohibited. : 


& segond order issued on 3 Féebsuary wes as follows: 


a Abi unit comranders should see to it the} the ¢ine 4s clearly indicated on 


the passes issued te their men. ‘hey should, moreover, rigidly enforce. 
the system o! sending men out in groups of three or nore. 


bo ALL unit comienders should find out the daytine password issued by the Gar 
vison Readquasters ond should informa their men of 1t befoxe sending them outs 


G. There in ne curfew on vehicular treffio, but all passengers of vehicles 
akould heve in thelr possession en individuel pags or ordaz. 


a. Senteles im en area wnere a unit is stationed have the right to iets Ox 
anyony who passea in their vlelinity during curfew hours, tneluding civil- 
Lens, Beraone with passes Lusued by the head of the Seoul Internal Af- 

feiva Department are not eu ject to any curfew reetriction. 


Qe A mole hody of troops nOvLNg at night is not aubject to any restriethione 


f. fhe heal of the Police affairs Department should strengthen his patrol 
force so as to guarantee atriet observance of the shove ragulations. 


Ty addition te these orders, military units in Seoul on February were again 
ordered to renain within thelr barracks areag except in emergency enses. Then | 
gach Individual was to apply to the battalion commemder of the Police affairs | 
Nevertment for a speck 3 pess. Soldiers were ordered to keep their weanone 
leaded. and to be always at combat readiness. Snecial instructions vere Lasued 
te genteles fas See im, cheaking civilians end in requiz ring pessvords ond 
Ldentification from nild tary pergonnel.. 


NO} 1% 45 not clear whether this tern means police affairs, as 
here he an, oF prevest marahal . 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370001-8 : 


4m 


