seo Hat ot For Release 2001/03/ P82-00457 R00830037699%-7 
CLASSIFICATION SE (OK Pond SVIAL 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT NO 
INFORMATION REPORT co no. 


‘4 


COUNTRY  Ghina/Korea ‘DATE DISTR. 1 Avg. 1951 
SUBJECT Observations on Chinese Comaunist Attitude NO.OF PAGES 2 
25X1A toward Cease Fire in Korea, Peiping, Tientsin geen e 
and Harbin i: = 


PLACE PPE ee ee ead PRA A GAA NO. OF ENCLS. | 
ACQUIRED ‘i vad a Frou b Hp) ad (LISTED BELOW) 
m4 : : f" 


DATE OF SUPPLEMENT TO 25X1X 


INFO. DO NOT CIRCULATE REPORT NO. g 


THE FOLLOWING REPORT WAS PREVIOUSLY 25X1A 
DISTRIBUTED AS % CIA PRELIMINARY 
co MSSEMINATION NUMBERED er 2 
le The stifl’ attitude of the U.S. at Kaesong was quite unexpected by the 
Chinese Communists, but in their anxiety to secure a aegis fire they 


will yield ground to gain political objectives in there peace offa.: sive.+ 
The following are their cardinal principles for the negotiations: 


ae Militerily they will grant many concessions and will obtain North 
Korean assent. 


pb. Even if United Nations terms are so severe that they are conpletely 
unacceptable to the Chinese, they will find some formule to continue 
discussions until September, when they expect marked changes in the 
international situation. 


c. During the cease-fire talks the Chinese will try to build up the 
international position of the North Korean regime amd to discover 
@ meens for China to enter the United Nations and la gis in the 
signing of the Japanese peace treaty. 


do 


25X1C 


25X1A 


25X1A 


Approved For Release 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008300370007-7 


SECRET... 2a AA 25X1A 
conn euul 
CENTRAL SLLIGENCE AGENCY — 


on Dow 


tl,  Propaganda-wise the Chinese will harp on their love of peace and security, 
painting the U.S. as insincere and a warmonger, so as to drive a wedge 
betwoen Britain and the U.S, 


The Communists in Tientsin are using the period of the cease-fire negotiations 
to procure material. Between the middle of dune and the middle of July the 
authorities were authorising trading companies and agencies abroad to purchase 
all available cotton cloth to be shipped to China to meet the shortage in the 
domestic market. Automobile spare parts, tires, communication equipment, andi 
medicine are anong the iteas emphasized in the purchasing program. During 
duns more than U.5. $34,000,000 worth of commodities was imported through 
Tientsin alone. 


Since the beginning of the negotiations both the Comaunists and the people 
of Harbin have accepted the belief that the Chinese Communist soldiers have 
won the war and that the United Nations forces are suing for peaces 
Nevertheless directions have been given high-level political workers to 
demand the utmost in all. endeavors; these directions warn against optimism or 
relaxation as a consequence of the cease-fire talks. 


Up to the end of June, except for wounted soldiers and badly shattered units, 
no Chinese troops have moved from the Korean front to the rear. On the 
contrary one Ariqy each of the k and 5 Army Groups, of the 2 Meld Army, have 
gone to the front. In addition one Mongol cavalry division has moved to the 
front. ‘ 


Le Comuente 


Council, the Chinese are disturbed by the stiff attitude of the United 
States at Kaesong and by the war preparations of the Morth Atlantic Treaty 
Organization, In order to preserve China's strength and avoid unnecessary 
sacrifices in preparation for tie next world wer, and in order to wait for 
the next move of the Soviets, the Chinese are very anxious to get a 
teuporary cease-fire in Korea. To achieve their peace«offensive objectives 
the Chinese are mounting a propagands campaign in which they accuse the 
United States of insincerity in desiring peace; the purpose of these 
accusations is to make more difficult the presentation by the United States 
of "extravagant cease-fire terns". 


Comment. Threats of Soviet participation in the Korean war, or 
ne berinning of another world war in vhich the Soviets are to fight 
ailop vith the Chinese, to becin in September 1951, are to be found in 

of which the information pretends to be of 
Communist origin, These threats are tied in with the signin: of the 
Japanese peace treaty. 


Approved For Release 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008300370007-7 


