me CLASSIFICATION — ciQqggygg gf I, 25X41 


= . Approved For ReQiaVeiZ00 3HORIL2IGEMGRD 82 : 4157 ROO7SQOSERAORG, 
INLD INFORMATION REPORT cp no. 


“a 


COUNTRY Koréa/china e tue («BATE DISTR. 12 aba 52 Y 
SUBJECT Condition of Chinese Commmnist froops in Korea NO. QF PAGES = 2 

a 2X ae ce aan 

PLACE be Ae 7 NO. OF ENCIS: 

ACQUIRED ; 2 MISTED BELOW) 


DATE OF - | a | SUPPLEMENT TO 
INFOD = | ,  25X1 --REPORTNO. 


THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION = = 


{WES QCLOLUNY COMTAING IMFORBIATION ArPECTING THOS MATIOUAL DESUNSZ fa 
Ov THE GHTIAD STATSS WITT THY REARING OF THE THPIORAGH ACT Go Be 
} G8. 0, 91 ANE OR. RD ALENOED, 78 TOANSMITEION OR THA REVELATION ee 
OF PM COUT ID ANY BARGER TO AN UNAMINORIZED NCRSOR ©3 PEC- et 
2 MTDETE! Mi. SLICING OF TNS BOR Ie onORMTIEN, rege: 


A Ae RS Oe ere ae 


a 
= 


io After the evacuation of Seoul on h January 1951, there wis no. railway treatise 

;. ation, and most of the bridges wera umusable because of bonbine, All trarkidfe 

_ was handled by the Chinese Communists, There was no tvaffic during the dare ert 
supplies were. brangported ab night, by trucks cr by horse or oxcarts, — _ -% 


2» Truring February, the highway Drom Seow. to Chunchon (L27—lh, 37252) was or 
with Chinese Commmist horse and oxcarte after sevan in the evening, with 
occasional trucks, These. trucks traveled without head-lights, although they 
blinked their lights at times. Their apeed wag never over ten niles an hour, 
and they had to step at bridges or Gangerous parts of the read te reconnoiter. 

before advancing. When a uy plane camp over, ell traffic stopped and remained 

motionless until the plane had gone. Ao daw, all. transport moved into villages 
and was carefally canoufleged among the houses. ‘There was no systenatic re~ 
pale work done on reads end bridges, but when Commntst troops came to an ine 
paseable sechion, they renabired it sufficiently to allew them to get through, 


» HSecause of the dleruption of supoly services by UN bonkings, in February Chinese. 
teoeps Lu the vieinity of Soul had had no meat since their denarture from China 
tores months previougLy. fatigue and undernourishmen: were becinning to tal on 
the men, axel the offlcere bad difficulty malcing thee merch at nicht < The best 
food available was white rice and Korean "clinchi", bat the usual diet wae tuo 
mosis daily of rice. and Salt, Ag @ result, the troops were weakened and despond. 
eit, obeying orderg mechentcally and without iife, a 


4. Chinese Commnist troops were much afraia of uy planes, to. the extent that they 
dinited their setivities ag far as possible to the might. The couriers wuho had 
to travel duxing the day went singly or in pairs, disruisead as woman, Seldiercs 
dieguised theuselves by domming woren’s sit vis, covering their shoulders with 
white cotten sheets, and draping a white cotton scarf over their Caps. Even a. 
shart distances, the disguise was effective, if a plane approached, soldiers 
fell flat in the snow or crouched under trees and boulders or in ditches. Some 
aoldiers, both Chinase anid North Korean, also put on the white Korean dress of | 
farmers aver theix uniforms. Even in-thig: guise they always traveled alone or 
3h Ctgups of no moma than four, not in formation, — oan: 


This document 
CONFIDENTIAL in 
letter of 16 oe oe 
Director of Central In'elige! 

1 ith United States. 
grRvv7e06530002-9 | 


Next Review Date: 7 08 


‘gence to te 


. 
a 4 


ie ref 


A 


- 
‘Cc 


Bo 


Approved For Release 2003/ . i ern ne Se eg 
- GBNThaL DATELLLORNCE scree | a oe BT 


oe 


About the middle of February, I planes. reportedly aroose ad leaf ets over Seoul. 
instructing the xesidents to wear black instead of white clothes. The next mOrn 
ing, soveChinese Commmist soldiers appeared on the streets in black civilian 
suits, and for ten days afterwards host Chinese and North Forcan troons withi 

the city wore black clothes. 


Before the arrival of the Coumunists, Seoul wes alarned oy risors of their shoot 
ing of men at sight and raping of women. ‘When the Chinese proved to be correct 
in “their vehavior, the Koreans were very favorably impressed and adaired the 
strict Chinese discipline. The Chinese never laid hands on women and the only 


stringent measure. they enforced was a house to house search for food and clothing. 


The good treatment by the Chinese was strongly contrasted with the attitude of 
the orth Koreans during their occupation of Seoul in 19500. a 


According te a story current among “officials of the Seoul government and TCT 


beirs of the North Korean State Security Bureau, in early Novouber 1990 before 
the troops Left Ghina, LIN Plao instructed his forces as follows: "Your 
enemy in Korea is not the Republic of Korea army but the United States army. In 
Korea, wherever you are, you must not kill or punish the civiliens, but. rather 
protect then." It was under LIN Piao's orders that the North Korean governzent 


issued its tilitary Order ‘fo. 71, which forbade the killing of war prisoners and 
civilians. . 


During february, in a village near Seoul, two Chinese and a orth ‘Horeatiy appar | 
ently officers with their interoreter, ordered the villaze populace: to assenble 
at night and to form a village self=defense wit. They told the people not to 
worry since the Chinese Communist army would take ood. care of them and asked 
their full cooperation. ‘Similar statements were made by Chincose Communist. troops: 


during their advance 6n Seoul to refugees in Keesong. The North Korean soldiers 


9 


LO» 


Ll. 


Tn Seoul ‘and all. other areas, chinese ‘troops 1 were e accompanied. by. a lorth Korean: 


‘not use the bomb without: warning, but would ‘droo warning leaflets so that the. ms 


and civilians frequently said that the cood behavier of the Chinese Cormunists - 


towards Koreans was not only an attempt “to gain Korean good will but was. age, . 
an expression of the basie policy of TiAo Tsetunge | 


The Chinese Communist soldiers were extremely soourity conscious. They. very | care- 
fully identified themselves only as belonging to the Chinese Puoplets Volunteer 
Arny and never mentioned units, hanes, or rank, A direct. inquiry about rank 

drew from one TAN apparently an officer, the statenent Nie have no ranks in the 
Chinese Comunist aray. Everybody is eqnal. Ne have only the person in charge 

of a unit, the deputy person in charge, and so forth." The ordinary soldiers! . 
were very careful never to give avay military information. 7 Nestly they: kept - 

their thoughts to themselves and would not express an opinion. Some soldiers 
stated that they came from South China, but Soreans were unable to deternine',, 


_ whether they. were velling the truth or hhad been Anstracted to give this. anguere 


cae es oe 


soldier to act as. guide and interoreter. Tie also reported. on the local situa- 
tion, and the Chinese were thought - to_use these reports as a basis for. forme _ 
lating their policy. and action. “Relations betwee 1 Chinese Commnist and North. 
Korean. troops were friendly on “thes “surtace, Cy “and instances of .open clashes 


were’ noticed. By the end of vebruary, however, there was apparently sone 8 ee 


Se aemia eines. 


Korean feeling among the Chinese. Some Communist soldiers ina _ Village near 


Seoul, undernourished and very. ‘low in spirits, told a “villager: "ie are suffer- 
ing like this because we bave been deceived by the North Xorean soldiers. They 
plotted to bring us here, and now we are doomed to die in a strange land. A. 
great number of our comrades have been xiled because of the deceit of the forth .. 
Horean any." . 


The Chinese shared with the North Koreana a fear that the Anert cans might use 
the atomie bomb against then. At a gathering of State Security officials in 
Seoul in early tarch, an officer said he had heard that the United States would. 
use the atomic bomb im Korea if the war went against then and that bombs were. 
already available in storage in. Japan. This remark threw a shadow over the 


party. In civilian conversations as well. as troop discussions, the atone bor 


was a constant subject, always mentioried with fear’, . AMong civilians, hovever, 
the feclin; was counon that the United States, as a. ‘champion of humanity, would” 


people could reriove to | a safe distance 


Approved For Release .2003/08/1: 


