geauee CLASSIFICATION CORPIDINT? : | 
| : Approved F @riesieas PPL @PN cE Rc BRP B2-00457ROG79R93x00 
| INFORMATION REPORT cpno. . — 25x1A 4p 


| | | : AUG SL 
COUNTRY Korea . DATE DISTR. 17 > 


SUBJECT Efforts of the Pro-Soviet North Korean Faction NO. OF PAGES a 
to Control the Governuent and the Arny 


roaune mmm 25°" aid Qh pope eves, 
| | al) ‘\ SUPPLEMENT TO 25X4X 
ES. OO Seascageiete January 1951 \ \\n REPORT NO. ee 


1. In August 1950, CH'ou Tongekon, thon North erean Minketer of National Defense, 
insisted that North Kerem troops should te withdrawn $0 tho 23th Parallel, in 
view of the international situation end the military potential of the North 
Korean army. He was violently opposed by EiM Ti-sdag and KIM Chae, then a 
member of the North Korean Military Committes and commander of the troops in 
the field. As a result of advocating this policy, CH'OR was given only the 
minor post of Rear Services commander in thu North Koereen army general haed- . 
quarters, and KIM Ch'ask took over actual direction of the armed forces, ale 
though he had had no military experience since his service os a guerrilla with 
the Chinese Commmist forces {n Manchuria before 1945, There wes a rumor cure 
Tent that CH'CE hed a dispute with KIM Ilesong and had tried to shoot hin, tut 
wes stopped by KIM Tu=pong, who happened to ba pregent.® 


2. Finally, in mid-Novenber 1950, CH'OE accused KIN Tl-sdhg end KIM Chiaek of 
ignorance concerning military matters, and CH'OE was replaced by CHANG Siw~u - 
as reer service commander, KéNG Kon, who had been « KIM Ii- sdng mon in Mane 
churia, was nemed front line commander. Other KIM lleséng scpporters who were 
already in important positions included PAX Honeil, deputy Minister of Internsl 
Affairs; CH'OE Kyong=tok ( % 2 f%: ), gomander of the North Korean force 
which occupied Seoul; and CH'CE Hyon ( 4 “4 ), former commander of the 38th 
Parallel Constabulary and later commander of the North Xerean 2 Corps. Thue 
soon after the beginning of the war, the higher etaf? members of the North 
Koresn army were KIM Il-séng's men, and the removal of CH’OE Yong-ken commilsted 
KIN's domination of the military comnand. 


3. By mid-November, however, KIM ll-séng wae faced with a shortage of trained 
Military commanders. KANG Kon was dead, and CH’OE Kyone~tek, vho had been 
sent to Manchuria in late October to reorgenize the retreating North Korean 
troops, was assassinated by an unidentified subordinate in early November. 
GIANG Siew was inexperienced. At ths point, the poseible re-emergence of 
KIM Muechong as a political ag well as military threat te KIM's leadership** 
added a new difficulty. Although he had been forzed te disband the Korean 
Volunteer Army which he had brought back from China, KIM Muschong waa named 
@eputy Minister of National Defense and comicntor of ths sriillesy when the 


t 


} CLASSIFICATION —__ CONFIDENTIAL - var . : 
[sate pena XT nar TRIBUTION SANGRE FARR” CINCY 
faruy [Xan Xe) [GoMNA PHL Ped comune tom7ritd lon nuSak lptancey 


Deeument He. ~-----4-------------- 

He Change In Glass. a 
Deelassiiied . 

Glass. Changed Tor TS §S G 


ast He 1E-2 Spee 
Sas Hlogseoqstto00e-of. 2 
ors a a 


- %y 1 F be 


ke 


5o 


6. 


Vo 


‘North Korran forces but f.Lled to keep order, 3 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370009-0 


— COUT TTL AL ee 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


 25X1A 
= 2a 


North Korean government was set Up, and he bevome commander of the North 


' Koreen 4 Corps when the war began. 


In the retreat from the ;:rlmeter, KIN Muechonz yas in cherge of regrouping 

k Stnertiack ( 37 AV 5%) 0 
commande: of guerrilla foiies in South Xorca, sls> fodled to use his txt 1 
effectively. These twe opp.*tunities to place the regsonsibility for milie 
tary reverses cn men no} dlzzetly assoclated with the wro=Seviet clique in 


the North Korean governnent ind more particularly in the North Korean Labor 


Party wee seized by KIM Tlesby to insure that KIN Muecong would not becone 
a cente: for Chinese Communis. political pretsure, A conference of the Gene 
tral Conmmlttee of the North Korsan Labor party wes called for 2 December 
1950 in @ small village near K.aggye. ‘The iata was set to nernit on earlier 
meeting, on 19 December, before the official conference, of KIit Tl-song, KIN 
Ch'aek, HO Kee3, PAK Changeok, ¢:d CEANG S4-u with Seviat Genercl Shtykoy at 
the Soviet enbassy, then in Manmpe in. 


In the official. party meeting, th» Central Comittee eevelles KIN Mus - chong 
from the party for inefficiency i: conducting operations on the Taogu front; 
astempts to vetain military caste sractices, including the shooting of unie 
dentified sujordinates without following regular army prosedurecs and faile 
ure to reorg mize, mobilize, and kev, order with troons cetreating to Mane 
churia throuz the Mannojin arec. F! Sdngetiauk was als» expelled by the 
Central Comittee for his jeallure tc organize South Korean guerrillas effee- 
tively and aspectally to asrange advuntageous sooperstion betwaea the North 
and South ‘orezn Labor Parties. Since RO reprosented the South Korean Lobox 
Pasbs, Ris removal along with KIM Mu:chong's meant the neutralisation at one 
stroke of both the South Korea and Giinese influences which threatened the 
Soviet blic.*** . 


43 adlitic.al safeguards, [Ili Llsadng incressed the Soviet representation in 
the milit-ry organs by making KIM Pa chief of the army security egency, the 


“Unit Training end Indoctrination Office (Tae Yuk Po UL Cho); adding more Sov- 


let advisers to North Kore:a army wits, even dow to battelioa Levels and 
proactizg Soviet=born Korevis to division commends. -KIM Chin-iuk, second son 
of Kil Jh*ack, for exammlc, a gradurte of the Sovlet iMlitery Acadeny, wes 
made comender of a divisio,. Thes: appoinimer.te vere nade in enite of the 
fact tiat the most successfil division commenders during the Norch Korean re 
treat iad been subordinates of KIM Maechong frcm the Volunteer Army, such as 
PAK Evo=sam ( 4 # 2 ), ommander o7 the 6 Division, giver the title of here 
becavse of the smal) nunbe? of casualties his troops suffered in the retreats 
PANG Ho-san ( x ), ‘ommander of the 7 Division, who was decorated for 
his trderly retreat and successful operations in the Changjiu Reservoir ereas 
and 2AK Nan if HA yy comender in the Tacjor. area early in tha war 


volitical interference wilt guerrilla activities in Sowth Kerega was a fector 
in their ineffectiveness. Originally wvAK Hon=yong had tried $0 cein more 
pover in th: North Korean i:my through apnoiniment of evltural devety com= 

waders when he controlled, and failing this, hed terled to claim vontrol of 
political cetivities in occiwiel areas of South Korea, When he vas séronu= 
ously opposed. in this by HO Xa=i, he turned his attention to guertilia activ= 
ities. fa en attempt to mobllizo all members and former, menbars of the South 
Korean Jebor Perty,, «AK sent to Seoul YI Chons<ap ( £ £ e d, SKLO leader, 
end YI vhueseng ( Me AK ff); forner head of the SXis" Labor Section. to set up 
a volunteer coy headquarter: end HO Song=t’aak to. command ths guerrillas. 
Not only did the troops unde: this conmand prove generelly ineffective, but 
they were believed to huve di:tmmted regular North Korean army activities in 
rear sreas. Neither of the S:oul officials hed had vreviuws military exmeri= 
ene, but *itis did not nrevent the removal cf H3 Sgng-tlaek later. 


25X1Aw | =e fn incident of this tyne vas alco resorted in Sestanber 1950. 


25X1A we 


25X1A 


a... iets oT HOSition of KIM tiuechong were dise 

cassed at length 25X1A ‘ 

a — . Factions in vee Joréh Koreaa government are dicenesed in 
25X1A_ . 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R007900370009-0 


