ww + 


‘ 


SOUNTRY Ghina — 


SUBJECT 


DATE OF 


lo 


3 


he 


25X1A | 


"  OBxX4 A Approved For Releaisie! 240 081032 CIA -RIDRG2-00457 ROUSU0HGT 


INFORMATION REPORT cp no. 


gts 


DATE DISTR. 17 Aug SL 

1. Korean Activities in Hong Kong _ NO. OF PAGES 2 

2. Popular Reaction in China to eral 

Support of North per 1h Gh 
. a 


NO. OF ENCLS. 
{LISTED BELOW) 


— SUPPLEMENT 10 _ 
REPORT NO, 


Korean Communist propagande, in Chinese and English, is being issued in consid- 
erable quantities through long Kong out.eta. The material is circulated by 
Coumunists and Coramnist sj.pathizers aiong Hong Kong youth, and is either sold 
in leftist bookshops or parsed around trough a sort of lending library systen, 
sonetimes without charge ari sometimes sith a nominal. fee. The books and pan- 
phiets in circulation appee: to come from Peiping, whore there is a North Korean 
publicity office, . 


Some of the Korean residents of Hong jong have been vanvasging for supportera 
of the Communist cause anc rve found sone sympathy. The majority of long Kong 
Koreans, however, being lar;cly of th: merchant class, are either neutral or 
are opposed to North Korea. Many off them are also cpposed to Savin RUEE, but 
no alternatives to his leadsship hav: bean sugcested. Whatever their political, 
color, ali. are in favor of wificatior of Korea, 


The Hong Kong government apioars to be satisfied th:t Korean politics are on so 
small a scale locally and tiat Chinese residents arn. so little interested that 
there is no need to interfe. The police, however, keep an eye on the Koreans 
anc if there is any disturtince depor| them, since many Koreans have entered 
Tiong Kong illegally by posiig as.Chineia. 


In North China, many Chine:? feel that the Chinese support of and friendship 
for North Korea is not a ywpular mnovemoit. The Chinese people are not inter- 
ested in what happens to tie Koreans ari in genera? dislike them. The foreans 
in China were often associ:ted with the Japanese in the popular opinion and 
had the reputation of bein, more savage than the Jasanese military and commit 
ting more atrocities, espec ally when personal profit was involved, than any 
other nationality. 


A typical Communist publicicion for sale in long Koag is a book published by 
the linistry of Foreign a:fairs of Nort: Korea in “yongyang, dated 1950, en~ 
titled Documents and vlate:tals Exposing the Instigators of the Civil War in 
Korea —- documents from tit Arcnives oi the Syngman Hibs Government. lhe 
boox is prefaced by the flowing "Edit-r's Notes": | 


- f 


jee In Class, 
Declassified §. | 


Ss than qs) ; f 
7003099670 


£ 
f 
- 


Po fe st OL Sa te a Ho it he a 


t sf 


Approved For Release 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008000370006-1: 
CORMESUILL AL 


25X1A 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY po 


CONFI nemeay. 


1) ‘The cocunents included in this collection were found in the archives of the 
QGE Syngman coverment which were captured by the Norean People's Army in 
Sgoule Besides these documents, the testimonies of two former high officials 
and one army officer of the South Korean puppet goverment are included. 


2) Jn the place of a preface, is printed the statement of the foreign linister 
of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, dated September 20, 1951, in 
which most of the documents and materials included herein are referred to. 

3) This collection is arranged into four parts according to their contents. 


1.) Docunents not explained by footnotes as | being in the Aorean language are 
originally in inglish. 


Approved For Release 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008000370006-1 


