ee oS 


té te Dept. declassificatiga & release instructions 


has eat drastical:y inte the amount af hewserint and offleial time 


may be reason to hope that the Kremlin's cynical appeal to the nearly universal 


eg 


ile °° * 
Approved For Release: 2002/01/03 : CIA-RDP80-01 065A\ 0040001001 9-3. 


Rh Mi, ey ore: Ban oe TS 
ae : 


ESTIMATE J vURLD FRACTTONS 70 
KOMEAN CeASE~Fite DeVeLOr rents 
' iaeerneactatneennntian, mematialemennnennn en ee 


AN INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE 
Prepared by 
‘The ustimate Croup 
Office of Intelligence Hesearch 


‘This is an Intelligence Report; 

nothing in it is to be construed ‘ 
_ as a statement of U.S. or Depart= 
_ mental policy or a recommendation 
Of any riven policy. 


AU QUST 22, 1951 
TNL DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
STATLMENT OF THE PROBLEM 
¥ . ~ 


To estimate the extent of free world acceptame of the Communist propaganda 
line in the event (a) of a breakdown of the Korean cease-fire talks or (b) of a 


prolongation of the talks. 


DISCUSSION 


An examination of of ficial and unofficial expressions of opinion in the 
non-Comrunist world since the berinning of the cease-fire discussions in Korea 
reveals a propressive falling off in world interest in the Faesong talks from 
the high point reached immediately after Malik's statement of June 23,. 


This is understandable enough, ffter the initial round of excitement at 
the prospect for an end to the Korean war, governments and peoples alike turned 
quickiy to the consideration of issues and problems on the various local scenes, 
In some countries where press and covernmental comment on international affairs 
normally cores in vouume-=India, for examle~-preoceupation with nearer issues 
devoted bo 
rie Twention of peace in sorea. ven wiere no unusuelly dramatic local events 
have supasvened, the passage of tinc, the somewhat technical nature of the cease- 
fire talks, and the prolonged bargaining character they have now acquired, have 
together dulled public and, apparently, official concern with events in Korea, 


Nowhere in. the non-Communist korld, certainly, does there seem to be any present 


and general disposition to view the Korean negotiations as a possible prelude 


.. t© Armageddon, On the contrary, the prevailing attitude in the free world has 


settled down for the time being to something not very far from indiffereme. 


+ This very lack of interest undoubtedly has been a factor blunting the edge 


of the Communist propaganda campaien. For all the effort of Communist organs 


and Communist "peace" organizers, the party line on Korea appears to nave been 
smothered, for the most part, by the apathy or preoccupation of the groups to 
whom the Communist, appeal has been directed. It is possible only to speculate 
about other explanations for the failure of the Communist propagandists to 


obtain a favorable response to their claim that US imperialism alone stands in 


the way of a peaceful settlement in Korea. In some degree, it seems likely 


that the demonstration of US readiness to discuss neace and that US leadership 


had every desire to limit the Korean war, coming immediately upon the spectacular 
evidence of the MacArthur incident, nas had a favorable effect on many proups 
previously ready to believe the worst about US intentions. Beyond this, there 


| 62451 


Approved For Release’ 2002/01/03 : CIA-RDP80-01065A000400010019-3 
eo oe oe asd | ‘ 


mer ef 


we aig a ore 


4 7 SEORET 


Ot 


‘denire nie is now ie tnning io be received with a notching cyntoisn 
ef the free world toward. Krem}in , protestations. at all event, the Conmunist 
~versloa of the specific issues raised at Kaesong seems to have gained very 


little cur ency; itis almost as though the world looked on the detailed 


“ dsgsués as being largely irrelevant to the major point: that is, whether or 


me the. Communist words, now wishes neace in Korea. 
; 


Tr th; ese reasons ae the Communist propaganda failure ; are broadly correct, 


then a pro) ongation of the Kaesony talks is not alone likely to make the free 
world any more recentive to the Communist anneal. The Communist. propaganda 
line, in the event of continuing ‘negotiations, is predictable. It will contime 


along carrot-and-stick lines, holding out the carrot of peace while at the sano 


time implying broadly that if tue US "warnongers" refuse the carrot, then the 


alternative | will be the stick of continuing bloodshed. at every point curing 
tle cease-fire, discussions, stress will te placed on US intransigence and US 
unwil Lingness to seek realistically for neace. By way of contrast, great weight 


iz will be placed on the exclusive Communist natent on peaceful intentions. Atrocity 


thenes, built around the allered effects of US air action, will be emphasized. 


: The threat, that the war may be renewed on a grander scale will te subtly but 
os persistently introduced, 


latent fears, . 


vee bince. this “propaganda approach has gained Uetle free ‘world’ acceptance 
thus far, it is “most unlikely that its appeal will be enhanced by further 
‘dragging out of the Saesong discussions. ather, apathy toward the Korean 
talks is Akely to deepen as time goes on. 


It must. be noted, however, that the world Communi st proparanda campaign 


aoe assuredly : ‘ain in popular attention from any Soviet action directly or — 


indi rectly related to the Korean negotiations, A startling conciliatory 


--move-=say, a Soviet signature to the Japanese peace treaty or, equally, an 


overt warlike act in Sorea or elsewhere--would necessarily give new life to 
the Communist peace or war campaien, either raising world hopes or arousi ng 


t 
& 


A prealdcnn oe Ge Kagsong talks wouls alter the Communist ee os 
campaign only in monor detail. There would be a major effort to pin=point 


US responsibility for the failure of negotiations, chiefly by seizing upon 


the simplest and most dramatic issues--most probably the location of the 


- Gease-fire line and the. buffer zone but perhaps repeated "violation" of the 
“neutral zone--and asserting and reasserting that it was US stubbornness and 
bad faith in rejecting the 38th parallel (after indicating an intention to 


accept it) that had dashed the world’s hope for peace. Otherwise, the main 


», ‘Lines of Communist propaganda would remain unchanged except, nerhaps that 
evén gree emphasis would be a to the war motif. 


x 


“There. is little doubt that the fact of a poeadean: ef the Korean pectic 
would alarm most of the free world. In some areas, notably the thilippines, 


“Turkey, and most of Latin America, where public and official opinion is condi- 


tioned to a belief in the. unchangeable malevolence of the Soviet world, 


he alarm would be mixed with an I~told-you~so reaction. hestern £uropean opinion 
;. ‘wowld be apprehensive at the prospect that the US would adopt the elements of 


the MacArthur program and thus bring World War III a long step nearer. In most 


Of Asia ang. the Near Hast, fear of an approaching Vorld war III would be height» 


enéd and some credence would be given to the Communist argument that US unwill- | 


~ dngness: to. compromise: was to blame for the ending of negotiations. 


eg 


fn practical terns, the. direct and immediate consequence of a breakdown 


-of the talks at Kaesong. would be limited. None of the states now contributing 
repsonhel. ; o the Korean war would substantially increase its contribution; the 
nations that have thus far refused to take an active part in the UN action 
‘would continue to refuse. The group of states tending most strongly to 


nedtraliomesIndia and its solloners in fate and the Near Easte-would become 


| 62451 


Loe ee : Hi . : cae ee age OEE IO 
"Approved For or Release 200201 : CIA-RDP80-01065A000400010019-3 _.. 


pe ay “e : 


oon Western European rearmament. 


> Bugn 


oan 3 wo PO Re Vg eee 

3 we ete Bee si Se dee tH OTE 

: ES Pa is a oy og 
a : 2 : 


Pee cette aa * et ee ae 
Fo mer iat : CIA-RDP80-01065A000400010019-3 


uf 


a ka 2 
‘*“ . SRORET , 
4 eas ae 


. hardened in their neutralist tendencies; many of the nations in this group 


“would look upon events in Korea as confirmation of their view that the UN 


. A$ an inadequate instrument for peace. tressure from this group for a big 


oo). power conference would increase. The pace of rearmament in “estern Europe 


: wuld not slacken but, neither would it be likely to accelerate. The UK and 


"the English speaking members of the British Conmonvealth would draw nearer 


to the US point of view on Far kKastern policies as regards China and Japan. 


® 


_ Japan, if its hopes for a peace treaty had been realized, would be spurred 


| ta build its military forces rapidly, unless, that is, a Soviet~Chinese attack 


appeared to be an imminent possibility, Over~all, the present military and 


- political lineup in the world would remain for the short period unchanged, 


» 1 However, the relationship of developments at Kaesong to the pending 
Japanese peace treaty conference at San Francisco is inteterminate and might 


.. be significant, If talks at Kaesong are continuing wher. the San Francisco 


_. egnference is convened, the Kremlin may (a) condition agreement to a Korean 


- atmistice on Kestern acceptance of Soviet proposals regarding Japan; (bd) 
' sgften Communist terms at Kacsong in order to obtain an arreement and thus 


a ig srpate ta dramatic, fashion an atmgsphere favorable to a feneral discus~ 


sion, on Soviet terms, of outstanding Far kastern issues; or (c) raise the 
| pfospect that both the Korean and Japanese impasses could be broken by a 
'- bhe power conference covering all Far Eastern issues. Any one of these 
_ tactics might well find a responsible attitude in India, Burma, and 
Indonesia, among the signatory nations, and in Iran and the Arab Near East 
ag well. A breakdown of the Kagsong talks prior to the conference would 
“give the Soviets the club of a threatened and imminent extension of the 
. Korean.ware Onee again, the response, so far as signatories to the peace 
_. tteaty are concerned, would be limited mainly to the three Asian nations, 
India, Burma, and Indonesia, These countries at least would be likely to be 
disposed to endorse Soviet proposals for big power nepotiations covering 
the entire range of Far pastern issucs and, more than likely, would refrain 


-, from signing the US draft of a Japanese peace treaty. 


CONCLUSIONS 


ye eee ee eee Mg Bee 
1. The Communist propaganda campaign, built upon the Kaesong talks, has 
thus far met. with indifference and skepticism throughout the free world. 


2 oe 2, ‘Prolongation of the discussions at Kaesong would be likely to ine 


See 28. oe breakdown, of the Kaesong talks would give rise to alarm in most 
of Asia and “estern Eyrope. Cormunist propaganda, which would attempt to 


put the entire onus of the failure of negotiations on US intransigence, 


-Wobid find some. acceptance in South and Southeast Asia and the Near Last. 
‘Nentralist tendencies in these areas would become more confirmed. No 
> Significant change would occur as regards troop contributions to Korea or 


4 


4, So far as the Japanese peace treaty conference is concerned, develop- 


"omepte in Kaesong are likely to have a significant effect only upon India, 
a, and Indonesia, states whose attitudes toward signing the treaty are 
pady in doubt. . ais. 


ee at 


ae 


4 
= ; 
Gt ; 


or 


ae ee 62451 


oa oe ee ome eh UE Ae ie 
«Approved For Release!2002/01/03 : CIA-RDP80-01065A000400010019-3 ~ 


beg ee ae 
oe Me - 


¥ 
nd * OS Wi cts 4 (ee 
abe oes er ee i 
eo 


fe) RE sp 
4 


erpase non-Communist indifference and skepticism toward the Communist appeal, 


