~ 


‘ : : 7 10122-8 
3 Approved For Releaggy2002/01/03 : CIA-RDP80 alee ee 


‘ 


ANNEX (A) 


ESTIMATE wf ORLD FRACTIONS TO 


_KOVEAN CraSh=FIPe DeVELOreE NPS 
Nt ECR A ams tee Here won te on epe-ttape 


AN INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE 
Prepared by 
The Lstimate Croup 
Office of Intellipence lesearch 


This is an Intelligence Report; 
nothing init is to be construed 
as a statement of U.S, or Depart~ 
mental policy or a recommendation 
of any riven policy. 


SUQUST 22, 1952 


TRL DEPARTMENT OF STATE 


. : STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM 


fT) estimate the extent of free world acceptance of the Communist propaganda 
line in the event (a) of a breakdown of the Korean cease-fire talks or (b). of a 
. prolongation of the talks. 


DISCUSSION 


ena Ne nt mare, 


An examination of official and unofficial expressions of opinion in the 
non-Communist world since the beginning of the cease-fire discussions in Korea 
reveals a progressive falling off in world interest in the Kaesong talks from 


the high point: reached immediately after Malik's statement of June 23. 


normally cores in Wlumé-<-India, for example~ «preoccupation with nearer issues 
has cut drastically into the amount af newsprint and of ficial time fevoted to 

Lie tuesbion of peace in nerea. VEN Where no unusually dramatic local events 
have supsevened, the passage of tinc, the somewhat technical nature of the cease~- 
fire talks, and the prolonged bargaining character tiiey have now acquired, have 
together dulled public and, apparently, official concern with events in Korea, 
Nowhere in the non-Communist Vorld, certainly, dees there seem to be any present 
and general disposition to view the Korean negotiations as a possible prelude 
to Armageddon, On the contrary, the prevailing attitude in the free world has 
Settled down for the time being to something not very far from indi ffererce. 


t 


This very Lack of interest undoubtedly has been a factor blunting the edge 
of the Communist propaganda campaign. For all the effort of Communist organs 
and Comminist "peace Organizers, the party line on Korea appears to nave been 
smothered, for the most part, by the apathy or preoccupation of the groups to 
whom the Communist appeal has been directed, It is possible only to speculate 
about other explanations for the failure of the Communist propagandists to 
obtain a favorable response to their claim that US imperialism alone stands in 
the way of a peaceful settlement in korea. Ir some degree, it seems likely. 
that the demonstration of US readiness to discuss peace and that US leadership 
had every desire to limit the Korean war, coming immediately upon the spectacular 
evidence of the MacArthur incident, nas had a favorable effect on many 7roups 
vreviously ready to velieve the worst about US intentions. Beyond this, there 
may be reason to hope that the Kremlin's cynical appeal to the nearly universal 


ificati instructions on file 
State Dept. Gee iaesule BOO ote eee eos ct Sboo10122-8 


A-i 


Approved*For Releagg/2002/01/03 : CIA-RDP80-01065A0004Q9010122-8 
“SECRET 


desire for peace is now begining to be received with a matching cynicism 
of the free world toward Kremlin protestations. it all event, the Communist 
versioa of the specific issues raised at Kaesong seems to have rained very 
little currency; it is slmost as though the world looked on the detailed 
isgues as being largely irrelevant to the major point: that is, whether or 
not the Communist worlc now wishes peace in Korea, 

If these reasons for the Communist nropuganda failure are broadly correct, 
then 4 prolongation of the Saesong talks is not alone likely to make the free 
world any nore recentive to the Communist anneal. The Communist propaganda 
line, in the event of continuinp negotiations, is predictable. It will contime 
alone carrot-and-stick lines, holdinp out the carrot of peace while at the sano 
time implying broadly that if tse US "warmongers" refuse the carrot, then the 
alternative will be the stick of continuing bloodshed. “t every point curing 
the cease~fire discussions, stress will be placed on JS intransigence and US 
unwillingness to seek realistically for ncdce. By way of contrast, great weight 
Will be placed on the exclusive Communist natent on psaceful intentions. Atrocity 
thenes, built around the allered efects of US air action, will be enphasized, 
The threat that the war may be renewed on a grander scale will te subtly but 
persistently introduced. 


“ince this propaganda approach has gained littie free world acceptance 
thus far, it is most unlikely that its appeal will be enhanced by further | 
dragging out of the 4Saesong discussions. ather, apathy toward the Korean 
talks is likely to deepen as time poes on. 


It must be noted, however, that the world Communist proparanda campaign 
would assuredly cain in popular attention from any Soviet action directly or 
indirectly related to the Korean negotiations. A startling conciliatory 
move~-say, a Soviet signature to the Japanese peace treaty or, equally, an 
overt warlike act in Sorea or elsewhere--would necessarily pive new life to 
the Communist peace or war campaign, cither raising world h>pes or arousing 
latent fears, 


A breakdown of the Kaesong talks woul: alter the Communist propaganda 
“campaign only in monor detail. There would be a major effort to pinepoint 
US responsibllity for the failure of negotiations, chiefly by seizing upon 
the simplest and most dramatic issues--most probably the location of the 
cease-fire line and the buffer zone but perhaps repeated “viclation" of the 
neutral zone--and asserting and reasserting that it was US stubbornness and 
bad faith in rejecting the 38th parallel (after indicating an intention to 
accept it) that had dashed the world's hope for peace. Otherwise, the main 
lines of Communist propaganda would remain unchanged except, verhaps that 
even greater emphasis would be piven to the war motif. 


There is little doubt that the fact of a breakdown of tie Korean negotiations 
would alarm most of the free world. In some areas, notably the rhilippines, 
_ Turkey, and most of Latin America, where public and official opinion is condie- 
tioned to a belief in the unchangeable malevolence of the Soviet world, 
alarm would be mixed with an I-told-youeso reaction. ‘estern “uropean opinion. 
would be apprehensive at the prospect that the US would adopt the elements of 
the MacArthur program and thus bring World War III a long step nearer. In most 
of Asia and the Near Hast, fear of an approaching World war III would be height- 
ened and some credence would be riven to the Communist argument that US unwill- 
ingness to compromise was to blame for the ending of negotiations. 


in practical terms, the direct and immediate consequence of a breakdown 
of the talks at Kaesong would be limited. ‘one of the states now contributing 
rersonnel to the Korean war would substantially increase its contribution; the 
nations that have thus far refused to take an active part in the UN action 
would continue to refuse. The group of states tending most stronply to 
neutralism=--India and its followers in Asia and tie Near Easte-«would become 


\ 


Approved For Release 2002/01/047CIA-RDP80-01 065A000400010122-8 


7 Approved For Releagg 2002/01/03 : ata 


SECRET 


hardened in their neutralist tendencles; many of the nations in this group 
would look upon events itn Korea as confirmation of their view that the UN 

is an inadequate instrument for peace. Fressure from this group for a big 
power conference wovld increase. The pace of rearmament in ‘estern Europe 
would not slacken but neither would it be likely to accelerate, The UK and 
the English speaking members of the British Commonwealth would draw nearer 
to the US point of view on Far sastern policies as regards China and Japan. © 
Japan, if its hopes for a peace treaty had been realized, would be spurred 
to build its military forces rapidly, unless, that is, a Soviet-Chinese attack 
appeared to be an imminent possibility. Over-all, the present military and 
political lineup in the world would remain for the short period unchanged, 


However, the relationship of developments at Kaesong to the pending 
Japanese peace treaty conference at San Francisco is inteterminate and might 
be significant. If talks at Kaesong are continuing when. the San Francisco 
conference is convened, the Kremlin may (a) condition agreement to a Korean 
armistice on Western acceptance of Soviet proposals regarding Japan; (b) 
soften Communist terms at Kacsong in order to obtain an agreement and thus 
to create in dramatic fashion an atmosphere favorable to a general discus= 
sion, on Soviet terms, of outstanding Far Eastern issues; of (c) raise the 
prospect that both the Korean and Japanese impasses could be broken by a 
blg power conference covering all Far Eastern issues. Any one of these 
tactics might well find a responsible attitude in India, Burma, and 
Indonesia, among the signatory nations, and in Iran and the Arab Near East 
as well. A breakdown of the Kaesong talks prior to the conference would 
give the Soviets the club of a threatened and imminent extension of the 
Korean war, Once again, the response, so far as signatories to the peace 
treaty are concerned, would be limited mainly to the three Asian nations, 
India, Burma, and Indonesia. These countries at least would be likely to be 
disposed to endorse Soviet proposals for big power negotiations covering 
the entire range of Far #astern issucs and, more than Likely, would refrain 
from signing the US draft of a Japanese peace treaty, 


CONCLUSIONS 


1. The Communist propaganda campaign, built upon the Kaesong talks, has 
thus far met with indifference and skepticism throughout the free world. 


2. FProlongation of the discussions at Kaesong wonld be likely to ine 
crease non-Communi st indifference and skepticism toward the Communist appeal, 


3. A breakdown of the Kaesong talks would give rise to alarm in most 
of Asia and vestern Europe. Communist propaganda, which would attempt to. 
put the entire onus of the failure of negotiations on US intransigence, 
would find some acceptance in South and Southeast Asia and the Near Last. 
Neutralist tendencies in these areas would become more confirmed. No _ 
significant change would occur as regards troop contributions to Korea or 
Western turopean rearmamente 


4, So far as the Japanese peace treaty conference is concerned, develop- 
mente tn Kaesong are likely to have a significant éffect only upon India, 
Burma, and Indonesia, states whose attitudes toward Signing the treaty are 
already in doubt. ; 


fe 
Approved For Release See eee ee eee see 


