COUNTRY Korea 


. 


Zoe p PLP LORY 


25X1A 
Approved For Releane:200W03: ENCHAsRDPRR2- -00457/R0081 005 3 


INFORMATION REPORT op no. a 
CONFIDENTIAL MG 


DATE DiSTR. 24 Aug ol 


SUBJECT Conditions in Seoul during the Second Communist | NO. OF PAGES 1 


PLACE 
ACQUIRE 


DATE OF 
INFO. | 


Occupation 


IMTELLUFAX 1@ NO. OF ENCLS. 


GISTED BELOW) 


25X1A 
SUPPLEMENT TO 25X1X 


REPORT NO. 


Although | the peovle ef Seow). had been assured tr Peeaidem. RAGE thet the olty 
would not be abandoned again. thoy were ordered on 3 Janusry 1951 by the uayor 
ef the «ity to arose the Han River as soon ag poasible.. As a long line of 
saPuzces was crossing the river rt dawn on 4 Jemary, a Unitet! Nations piane 
flew overhead broadcasting ani copping hardblile te warn thet those Roreaar woe 
were found eressing the river would be shot. 


This snnouncenent angered the civilians. who felt that the United Maticns did mot 
ears for the wolfare of the peopla. About 30 refugees who were returning tc 
Seoul from an attempt to cros3 the Hen River vere strafed amd killed by United 
Netiona pianss. This incident caused much disturbance enong ROK suppertera. who 
feit that they ware considered worthless oy the ere command and could nob 
txust their ow goverment for procection. 


When the Chinese Communists extered Seoul, they sesrched and questionsd the resi~ 
dents who hed remained, parsiculeriy with regard te men eligible fcr military 
eervice, and wars through the imeceupied. houses amd confiscated all valuihice 
gooda.* On 25 Jamary 1951 the black people's ccamittees nade a gorere] census. 
On LO February officials visited hases to list the names of children of school 
age, Inatances vera reported im late February of North Koreans arresting ard 
threaten’ ne woneu whe refused ts reveal the location of male ralatives who had 
formerly Jived in North Kersa ar who had bolouged to exti-Comnunist premps in 
Ene south, 


Duwing the oceupetion, the Chinese Ceamunists cften searched private hemas at 
night. When Chinese soldiers were oilleted for a time ia s private home. they 
required the women of the household to cook for then, although they brought: 
theale oun rice awl often left money for the service. The Chinese enpes ed to 
ba in bad condition regarding both food aud weapons, in contrast te the mumeorons 
Nerth Kerean ailitary end sivilisn personnel. in Seowl who were well-fed in 
appearance, 


25XTA Comment. Fer previous raperts on the second Communist cecupnbion ox 


stare [Si ray | ce FRIBUTION —_SENCEACKL MM pain oe Sa ly 
anwyig@ian ro | | Gincwid PEARE COMMAVPEX COMLFLT¥ raarielg #4 Goma venti 


Sean sco iT end refersnaad renorta.. 


25X1A 


This document Is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the 
letter of 16 October 1978 from the 
Director of Gentral intelligence to ihe 
Archivist of the United States. 


