COUNTRY Korea/USSR CO N F | D E N ‘i | A [. DATE DISTR. 24 Aug 51 


a 


CLASSIFICAHION ven yo aids 25X1A 
Approved For Releasr20 Ot /0G108: NCI AEDES 2-00457RA08r 005 in 


INFORMATION REPORT  cpno. 


SUBJECT Soviet Training Program in North Korea NO. OF PAGES 1. 
foguiken er Oe _ = 
DATE OF sips SUPPLEMENT TOL.) 7 
INFO, 7< REPORT NO. 0 eeecse- 25X1X 


fb 


in the summer of 1947, the Central Sommittee of Ushbelkisten called epon Koren. 
speaicing teachers da the USSR who ware Soviei-torn Rereana. to 20 to Werth Korea 
for special work. The teachars wera appesied to an the basia of setriotian 
toward thelr Koreen nationality end the progresa usde ty the North Koreans in 
education and general culture. Ther were asked to sign contracts for tw oars 
but were not, teld anything of the subjects or conditions of thelr work. Teexnty~ 
three teachers from Seviet~bora Sorsens in the Tashkent arce slenet contracts. 


AQ] members of the sroup were given Soviet passports and had ro doubts about 
dosing their Soviet cltizenghip through two years’ residence outside the USSR. 
They had to surrender their passports, hovever, upon errivine at thadr desting~ 
tion. Pyongyang, and received in retuen cortificates stating thet they vere 
residents of Pyongyang and teechors in the asntral Soviet school there. They 
were pale 3500 to 4000 North Korean won a month and received fraa housing for 
thenselves ani their families. Tholr vey was higher than that of native Korean 
teachers. but otherise the croup hed wo privileges. They vere not mavbers of 
the Soviet Citizens Association and wers not pormitted to buy from specint 
Soviet stores, which wore for ethnic Russiens only. 


Courses included Rusaian langvage training, Soviet literetuve and history. apd 
specially arranged Soviet cultural. end political subjects, Ali Jastraetion 


was given according to a specially deaigned prearem, with « everieaium snd 
schejule -unplied from the USSR through the evwliural seetion «* thea Sovie? 
Embasay end textbooks printed in the USSR. Addittonal texvbocks sad : 
materinis. as wall as dictionaries end lanevage aids, were precered in Prongynu 
during the tesehing. 


There wag one contral school. tn Pyergyang te which Korean toschers Crom sizteen 
different achools were sent for six-month courses, The mmber of students vhe 
anrolled was mere than could te taken care of im the two yoars for vivich t 
program was errangec. When the fitth clase of students arvived in 1949. 
teachers from the USSR were forcad to extend their comiracte for a: 
two years. The extended contracts vere scheduled ta ba commlated in the 
half of 1951. 


CONFIDENTIAL 
CLASSIFICATION = CONFIIEWPTAL 


fusee | ~_D RIBUTION - 
2 oe AE SPRUE | hs 


ment is hereby 

TIAL in eae 

per I3e 

of 16 Octo 9 
Baer ot Central jnisiligenve 


rovedF et Reiease 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDPB2- 
Next Review pete: 20080 fC ( CSC tte 


This docu 
CONFIDEN 


