* CLASSIFICATION LSS Liss Bho. 25X1A 


aa ; ApprovedSEbif Rellehsbe: PAC AGINGOPS2-004BFROOTIOGS34011-6 | 
\ mee S i Sc: 
InTELLoen INFORMS) ION REPORT — cono . 
5 ONFIDENTIAL ct 
COUNTRY Korea DATE DISTR. -* AUG SL by 
SUBJECT Economic Conditions in Seoul during the NO. OF PAGES» 2 
Second Coanmunist Occupation 
PLACE NO. OF ENCLS. 
ACQUIRED CUISTED BELOW} 
DATE. OF eal SUPPLEMENT TO 25X1X 
_ INFO, REPORT NO. 


1. ‘The mein activity of Chinese Coommist and Werth horean troons in Leoul 
during the second sceupation was the reuoval of goods. Although economic 
rehabilitation of the city wes mentioned in talks, very Little was done. 


2, On 15 darnuary 1951. the markets at the East Gete and Ahyon-dong vere opensd, 
althouch on a small anale, The same day CI‘OR Ghtang~ik*( eas aA)» 
ebairoan of the Seoul Poenie's Gomuttea. issued a proclamation that the 
Hecth Korean Central, Bank mumrreney end the South horenn Bank of Korea 
currency would be used jointly at e rete of one North Korean won te tea 
South Kerean, On 2° Yomuary, CUOE revised the rate to 20 to 1. 


4. The people did not have much confidence in the North Korean moncy snd pre- 
Taprad te do business in Gouth Korean currency. ‘Troops vere nobliined 15 
ferce the circulation oft North Korean won, when merchants refused to seli 
goods at any rote higher than 10 te 1. Although the merchants were forced 
éa ase Worth Korean currency, they retaliated by doubling their prices in 

an attemt to preserve the original ratice However, crain merchants still 

refused to sell only for North Korean won, since the farmers would oot ace 
sent anything Int South Koreen currency for their preduce, The Korth fheresn 
authorities had te submit to this argumont.. 


4. Following the occupation, orices of commdities began to rice, ded by the 
grains. On 30 January, about 14 pounds of rice mold at..36,000 Sevth Korear 
yon. People were forbidden. under penalty of death, to slaughter their 
domeatic animals. and consequently meat was sold seeretly to the North 
Korean soldiers. A pack of foreign cigarettes sold at 10,000 to 14,000 
von, bat the only buyers were North Korean offivers. 


3, By the beginning of February, tne guns of United Nations forces eould be 
heard on the otber side of the Han River, On 3 February, the people's cone 
wmittees took down their sipns and market coutrois were not enferced, 30 
, thes the rate of exchange declinwts, perity, The Morb Soreans accepted this rate 
up until the UN occupation of the city. When the inhabitents realiged that 
United Nations trooos vere going te re~enter Seoul, the North Koroan money 
became uselesa. since evervone vos trying to obtain South Korean yvou,7" 


29X1 


This document is hereby regraded to } 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the | 
letter of 16 October 1578 from the} 
Director of Central Intelligence to the | 


Archivist of the United States. 


N ‘ D : ona fooacig 
oxi, Re roved For Release 2005/14/14 ; CIA-RDP82-004 


: : 25X1A 


wie Pad 


ab 8, meee dey 
Approved For Release. Fa bf ERP RE2HOG457 R008 10053001 


&. After the Commmist eceupation of Seoul the dong (neighborhood) people's 
summittees conducted a census between 20 ond 26 January, ostensibly to en- 
force the food rationing policy, but actually to investigate the political 
inclinations of the populace and iocate possible fifth column elements. 


7. According to the nolicy of the North Korean sovermment, those eligible for 
food rationing were poor farmers and city dwellers, while the petty bour- 
geoic merchants, and landlords were exeluded, Actually the plan was never 
put into effect, Even the emplcyees of the people's committees who were 
entitles to a half nound of rice a day rarely received half that amount be- 
esuse the chairman of the committee often appropriated the ration for his 
own use, Some committees padded the census lists with dead person!’ names to 
draw more rations. Since there was no white rice, the ration became vheat 
and barley. 


sa 


» The State Security Department had the most food, . Their employees were issued 
fond caupons which entitled them to eat three meals a day in a designated 
restourant. The meal consisted of 250 srams of white rice and wheat. 


3. Some of the North Korean government organizations employed older men and 
womer on probation, since they did not have identification certificates, 
Only thease who hac sone north with the North Kersan army in September were 
lasued certificates, 


25X1A 
Washington Comment, According er CH'OE Cotang=ik was lormeriy 
the Winister of Finance of the Korean Cantral Labor Party. 
25x10 ** Comment. The legal rate of South Korean won direetly after the 
United Netions occupation on 15 March was 7,000 to one United Stetes 


dollar. 


CONF IPENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2005/12/14 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008100530011-6 


