CONFIDENTIAL 
i etmaitinneminteemed tela nats 


Approved For Release 2000/08/08 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008600500001-5 0 OOF 


CLASSIFICATION sBexeTt7CONTROt—=-te—3-—-SPPEGEARS—ONTY 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
INFORMATION REPORT 


iNTELLOFAX 4 


COUNTRY China/USSR/Korea 


SUBJECT Prospects of the Korean Cease-Fire Talks md 
of Chinese Communist Stre'egy in Asia 


PLACE  25X1C ,Ar | 
ACQUIRED ae 

DATE OF ) | 
INFO. E 


25X1X 


and conclusions based mainly on news items and views 


there may be some reference value in observations A 
in Chinese Commnist 201 


REPORT NO. fn eon 


CD NO. 


DATE DISTR. 14 Sept. 1951 
NO. OF PAGES h 


NO. OF ENCLS. 
(LISTED BELOW? 


SUPPLEMENT TO 
REPORT NO. 


publications as to why the Chinese Comunists would like to have a Korean 
cease-fire, to whether the Kaesong cease-fire will produce my results, 
and to what will be the future movements of the Chinese Communists, 


2. At the present stage of the Korean war, there are the following reasons to 
explain the willingness of the Chinese Communists for a cease-fire: 


a. The Chinese Communists have suffered considerable 


losses in the Korean 


war. The Ta Kung Pao, Hong Kong, boasted that the Amerie troops and 
troops of other nations had had over 500,000 losses, and that the ratio 
of United Nations (UN) losses to those of the Chinese Commmists and 
the North Koreans was one to two. Chinese Communist authorities 
admitted losses of over a million, Before the Kaesong conference, a 
Ta Kung Pao editorial stated that the Korean war would not be advan~ 
tageous to both parties, but would merely add to the loss of lives and 


property of the North Koreans. 


b. The Cuinese Communists have lost their hope of driving UN troops to the 
sea. This was hinted by Chinese Communist Papers soon after the UN 
resolution branding Co:munist China as an aggressor, 


c. Sven if the Chinese Communists could drive UN troops out of Korea, that 
would not mem the end of the Korean war, but the expansion of tha war; 
this was also expressed in Chinese Communist papers threa or four months 


ago. 


d. The Korean war has caused grave troubles in Chinese Communist reconstruc- 
tion, especially in the economic sphere where numerous difficulties have 


CLASSIFICATION 


ar 
a 


Approved For Release 2000/08/08 : CIA-RD 


| Ne fi. 
No Change In Glass. [_] ae 
[ ] Dectassified : 


Glass, Changed To: TS s(o)- | 
B2N046K ROGS60050000T-5: «° | 
Date: _u/o8l2%__ = py: a2 9_ 


3. 


h. 


5. 


bPAXtDR8 2-00457R008600500001-5 


Q 


0/08/9824 


Approved For Release 


200 


25X1A 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


= 2 us 


alreaty appeared, such as the shortage of naterials, the lack of 
a proper flow of native goods, financial difficulties, etc. 


@. Chinese Communist auth “ities are very much worried over the 
Japanese Peace Treaty md the rearmasent amd revival of Japan. 
Japan is expanding, while the Chinese Communists have been 
Wasting themselves in the Korean war, which has made the Chinese 
Comminist very uneasy, 


f. The USSR and the Chinese Communists do not dare to provoke 
another world war yet, and therefore the so-called Internati onal 
Volunteer Army and the Chinese Communist Air Force have not yet 
appeared in the war to any degree. 


&- The fight for admission into the UN ad the conquest of Taiwan 
cannot be achieved with the continuation of the Korean War, On 
the contrary, the continuation of the Korean war would deprive the 
Chinese Communists of an Ipportunity to make themselves heard in 
the international. circles. 


h. Chinese Communist authorities may have found that a Korean war 
ceasefire at the 38th Parallel is for them a possible and profitable 
solution at the present time. And the Withdrawal of foreign troops 
from Korea, if obtained, would mean a real victory for the Chinese 
Commurlistes, 


After the UN passed the resolution branding Commnist China as an 
ageressor, and after the Chinese Commnist forces had sustained he avy 
casualties, Chinese Communist papers at once cut down boastful comments 
on the progress of the Korean war. The argunent that the Chinese Comu- 
nists must win and that the UN troopa must be driven from Korea 
disappesred almost entirely. Instead, they began to view the Korean war 
as a long and difficult war with no promise of a profitable future, and 
admitted also the superiority of UN fire-power. The Anti~America Aid 
Korea campaign stressed the importance of building up the Chinese 
Communist strength in various aspects such es nationg] defense recons— 
truction, production reconstruction, land reform, "suppression of snti- 
revolutionists," etc., and no argument was advanced that these measures 
were to bring direct and speedy victory in the Koresm war. 


According to news from people from the China mainland, it is often 
reported that there have been differences in opinion within the Chinese 
Communist Party (CCP) in regard to the Korea war. Proofs of this can 
also be gathered fron Chinese Communist papers. The people even say that 
the Chinese Communists have craved a cease-fire, md are thus quite dia- 
Satisfied with the USSR. The fact that the United Stated adopted 
speedy and firm policy of resisting aggression from the start of the 
Korean wer, and that the UN has been ungimous in opposing aggression, 
furnishes proof, on the contrary, of the mistaken Soviet policy of pro-~ 
voking the Korean war and its defeat. The Korean war hes proved to be 
m adventure based on mistaken calculation. It was equelly erroneous to 
have rejected UN cease-fire propesala,. 


There are, however, other factors, For example, the Korasn war might 
have made Communist China amd North Korea more dependent on the USSR, and 
more hostile toward the United States and Great Britain. Further, if a 
Korean cease-fire could be realized, this would be a way out of a very 
dangerous situation, and it would not deepen the split between the USSR ani 
Communist China. The Chinese Communist Government could also pacify ite 
people by showing that it cam start » war ad can also end s war. There- 
fore, we carmmot over—emphasise the growth of a split within the CCP wa 
result of the Korean var, It might have been a factor in the desire for 

a Korem cease-fire. This is because the USSR, after having driven her 
satellites into trouble, must see to it that ashe does not allow the Korean 
war to develop into a third world war, and that the losses gre still 
bearable for the satellites. 


> RONFIDENTIAL 


3.2-00457R008600500001-5 


6. 


7. 


F- 


10, 


i 25X1A 
Approved For RelGaS@ 2000S ASE NCTAARIDPS 2-00457R00860 
- 3 CONFIDENTIAL 


As the continuation of the Korem war is .=ry dangerous for Communist 
China, it would be more serious if the Kassong conference proved e« failure. 
Communist China would suffer greater losses, and war would have to be 
extended to the Yalu River and to within Chinese boundaries. According to 
news received by informant, there would, in ge‘eral, be agreement reached 
on the agenda of the Kaesong talks. After agreement on the agenda, there 
does not appear to be any serious reason for the talks to break up, 

Judging from known facts, we may say that the telks may end in some kind 
of agreement. However, that does not mean that the talks will face no 
difficulties and delays. 


After the cease-fire, the solution of the Korean problem would be very 
difficult, The implementation of the cease-fire agreement would un- 
avoidably incur many disputes amd confusions, because the CCP lacks 
sincerity and a spirit of abiding by law, and because the division of North 
and South Korea presents further complications in the implementation of the 
cease-fire agreement. The speady withdrawal of foreign troops from Korea 
would be a major CCP propaganda offensive. North Korea ad the Communist 
bloc, once compelled to accept # temporary cease~fire near the 38th Parallel, 
would at the same time seize opportunities to get a political solution to 
the Korean problem that would be profitable to North Korea. They would not 
easily assune the spirit to accommodate the working out of the UN Korean 
unification program. 


One view is that the Communist Party would renew the Korean war shortly 
after the cease-fire. However, we have no sufficient reason to think that 
the Communist Party would soon make new aggressive moves while they still 
remember the losses sustained in the Korean war. 


There arc indications that the Chinese Commniste are revamping their poli- 
cies, In the Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Japa is taken as their 
hypothetical enemy. In their propaganda, they have been picturing the — 
United States as their most dangerous enemy, as having replaced Japan in 
its position and influence in the Far East, and as having designs to follow 
the Japanese path of military aggression in China. At the beginning, 
Communist Chinatook as the cardinal policy of its national defense recon- 
struction to defend the Far East for the USSR against Japan in the event of 
a third world war. With its entry into the Korean war, Communist China 
publicly reiterated that national defense reconstruction was the main task, 
The Korean war meant but a kind of practical exercise in modern warfare to 
the Chinese Communists. In implication, the Korean war must heave made the 
Chinese Communists understand more thoroughly how efficient the human sea 
tactica could be in modern warfare, ite national defense weaknesses, the 
shortcomings of its national defense reconstruction, and the ereat length 
of time required for national defense reconstruction. The defense planning 
ains merely at fighting huge Japanese armies in China, The flimsy naval and 
air strength they possess makes it impossible for them nuw to harbor any 
design to launch attacks of a certain kir.. 


For the present, the Chinese Communist national defense program may contain 
the following points: 


a. To keep the best naval, land and air forces in the Northeast te coordi-- 
nate with the Soviet, Mongol" am and Korean forces to prepare for war 
against Japan in the fixture. 


b. To prepare to fight major delaying campaigns against Japan in North 
Ching, . 


e. To build up military industries and strategic bases in the Northwest to 
supply Southwest, Central ad South Chins, and East China, 


d. To launch obstructive campaigns in Central and South China and East China, 


@. To start in Southwest China "disruptive" areas of *disturbance" against 
Southeast Asia. 


f. To launch surprise attacks on the high seas. 
(SECRET/GONTROL——U,—S---OFFIGTALS ONLY 


Approved For Release 2000/08/08 c@tiAtziN PR2,00457R008600500001-5 


Approved For Release 2000/08/08 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008600500001-5 


CONFIDENTIay 
Se ean] 


SHRET/COMTROE =U, S. OFFTCTILS ONEY 


CENTRAL INT:LLIGENCE AGENCY 


25X1A 


eae See 


ll. The completion of this Plan would require three to five years at least. 
It would also require much time snd ereat effort in stabilizing political 
power, in completing land reform, in economic betterment, and in other 
work. ‘iany ills would arise fom this over-burdening. The completion 
of full-scale national defense preparations in the China mainland and 
construction of aggressive power would require still more time. Apart 
from preserving China's military dependence on her, the USSR also realizes 
that China is an important safety factor on her eastern front. When the 
Chinese Communists jolccd the Korean war, they put forth the flogan "We 
must crush ageression first before we engage in reconstruction", but 
such a slogan is no longer heards in its place is the slogan to "Speed 
up reconstruction in order to crush aggression," 


12. Following a cease-fire, a “1inese Communist political offensive would be 
concurrent with their tational defense program and other internal recon 
struction ~lans, The Chinese Communists see that there ig no unity in 
the Far Eastern policy of the United States and of Great Britain. The 
rise of Japan once again would possibly lead to competition between the 
western countries and to the fear of Japm of Asiatic co-ntries, By this 
the democratic countries could be weakened and Japanese rearmament delayed, 
which would cover the progress that Communist China made in rearmanent, 

The Japanese peace treaty would be the first major subject for the launch- 
ing of a political offensive. Commnist China must inmediately secure 
Taiwan, but it would not dare at this time to launch any military attacks 
on the island. At this time, the Chinese Communists would not dare to 

send a volunteer army to help Ho Chi Minh, because this would mean a repe ti~ 
tion of the Korean war, which would help the solidarity between the United 
States and Great Britain. This political offensive will be complicated and 
aay~sided. To attack the United States, Great Britain and other nations 
would not lead to any understanding with those nations, For the Chinese 
Communists, there is merely retreat under military and political pressure, 
but not well-meaning understanding, 


13. Vith the bitter lesson of the Korean wer, the Chinese Commnists have 
subdued considerably their over-confidence in their ability "to crush 
agression" and "to liberate Asia." Armed agression will be changed to the 
supply of arms and secret aid to revolting forces so as to bring about 
the realization of their infiltration policy in all Asiatic countries, 


1h. In summary, the war-adventure policy of Commmist Chine possibly will stop 
for the time being; and China will devote itself to internal recon~ 
struction, preparations for war, political ageression, and infiltration 


policy toward Asia, However, Communist China would change its policy 
whenever the USSR changes hers. 


i (CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2000/08/08 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008600500001-5 


