_ Approved For Release 2001/03/06°- C1A- 


STCTALS ” 


eel ete 


3 0 5 P'82-00457RO0830055 
INTELLOFAX SHEP OMIA A TION REPORT ep no. 


Paes YGONFIC: BATE DISTR. 


wien of Chinese Gusinassmen on Possible NO. OF PAGES: 
© Of Resolving Korean Var ee: 


NO. OF ENCLS. 


{LISTED BELOW} | 


SUPPLEMENT TO 
25X1X REPORT NO. 


Loveaver 1950 the Chinese Comaunists, with their ego highly inflated, 
chat. they Would be able in a year or less to really defeat the United 
sions or drive them into the sea. Bui. after a lange of almost six 

vithe they ware bogiming te wonder if their original Hopes were not tec 
“XEravecants yot they found themselves riding a tiger and did not know how 
uo disrowlh, Their inferiority complex made 1t impossible to budge fron 
taeky original position of shooting their way into the United Nations, 
rearing they vould Tose too much face. ie 


‘he consensud among those whom source talked to was that a possible 

wodubion was to havo the Good Offices Committee of the United Nations 

fron the clue of the North Koreens, because the Nerth Koreans had 

uot popudiated the United Nations, even occasionally having protested to this 
workd organization againet alleged uncivilized metheds of warfare. 

Chinese troops intervened in Korea ostensibly as volunteers and 

are nob original disputeants. : 


fea psychological moment would come vhen the Chinese forces should fail 
in thea second phese of their spring offensive; the United Nations should 
‘hon iynise the Vorth Koreons to United Kations headquarters to show cause 
a coagse fire should not be ordered pending a recommendation by a 


This move might bypass the sonsibility and save the face of the Chinese. 
{{ da notabia thet ilalik has alveya pressed the fact that the North Koreans 
soonld be heard. There is little other likelihood that the Korean war 


be resolver, for the Chinese Communists are so constituted that thoir 


Ak 


sover-say-die motto makes it impossible for them to adnit defeat. 


Gone IDENTIAS 


_GLASSIFICATION — SECRISEAGori te CARTS LY 
[és a DISTRIBUTION ee [ 


ORR le ee cee 


Approved For Release 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008300550002-2 


