CONF L42 
=. + Approved FUPRE Rise 2ootiosias Gix-RDPbe nb ophsthane fo57002-7 ’ 


- ” CLASSIFICATION See. 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT NO. ~ 


INFORMATION REPORT = cono. 


COUNTRY Korea DATE DISTR. 26 Sept. 1951 
SUBJECT Dissension among the North Korean, Soviet and NO. OF PAGES 2 
Chinese Gonmunists over Policy in Korea 
PLACE 25X1A RERE RE 
acQuIRED 25x i be 


DATE OF sae EEM ENE TO 25X1X 


INFO. DO NOT CIRCULATE REPORT NO. 


| HUMBERES ee 


Pro-Soviet North Korean Couwnunists are attempting to get Korean policy under 
Soviet control. They queried the Soviets on the status of the Chinese 
Communists in Korea, wanting to know whether the Chinese Co mmistS were . 
volunteers or regulars, since the Chinese Communist "Volunteers" in Korea 
were supposedly under North Korean Army jurisdiction. According to public 
opinion in North Korea, the entry of kuropean troops is a step nearer Soviet 
intervention and World War Iii, North Korean Labor Party officials have 
openly stated that the Coumunists should make peace among themselves before 
holding peace talks with the United Nations. This feeling is strongly 
supported, Anti-Soviet Communists in Korea may make an atteupt to contact 
the United Nations for the peaceful unification of Korea. This act would 
be genuine so far as anti-Soviet Koreans are concerned, 


2. The Chinese Conmunists are displeased with the entry of Ruropean volunteers in 
North Korea. The reason for their displeasure is that the Soviet and North 
Korean Communist parties without Chinese Cosmunist consent requested the 
assistance of the European Cominform countries with the objective of placing 
North Korea under the control of Soviet~-trained Koreans. By this act the 
Soviets were trying to block the Chinese Communists from monopolizing the 
Korean conflict for Chinese Co.munist benefit. if Luropean troops tuke part 
in the fighting, the Soviets believe the problem will be partially solved, 

The Soviets and North Koreans both feel that the entrance of the kuropeans 

is sufficient reason for setting up an international joint command in Korea, 
thus depriving the Chinese Communists of the authority to make or dictate 
decisions in North Korea. The establishment of this international command 

was under discussion in late August. Russian arny officers are to be in command, 


sexeehY 


CLASSIFICATION <u 


STATE _ ae [raw I x x nsep || afer CINCH. 
ARMY x [AiR * | FB! 1 Rocsaves bitte chides 


ntrtete Hy 


eg leg rst nélod wavere meddte TREE Pe 
mite Colman TA ALTaNA a felts 


Approved For Release 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008600570002-7 


25X1X 


prOnht— CONFIDENTIAL 25X1A 
Approved For Releasg,2001/93/06 i. Gi; RORE2-00457R00860 amma 


oD s 


The Chinese Communists assert that the problem in Korea is lack of equipsent, 
not manpower. The Chinese Communists fear that the Soviets will use the 
above tactics everywhere in Asia to thwart the advancenent of the Chinese 
‘Gommunists. 


Moderate North Korean Conmunists are disgusted with the establishwent of the 
joint Soviet-Chinese Coumunist political mission on the truce talks, from 
which the North Korean delegates take orders; the moderates view this as 
evidence of Soviet and Chinese Communist domination, and blame Kim I1-sing 
for selling out, saying he agreed to the joint mission at a Communist meeting 
at Peiping. iM answers that this is a new step for organizing collective 
security forces in Asia and that the joint commission was part of a decision 
made at a general meeting of the Asian Cominforn. 


The North Koreans are not willing to resume peace negotiations at Kaesong, 
and insist that the North Korean Communists should have the deciding voice 
in the Korean theater and in political talks. The North Korean Labor Party 
held a special meating in late August on this question and decided to open 
separate negotiations with the Soviets in koscow and with the Chinese 
Communists in Peiping. 


a TAL 
i CONFIDENTLA 


SEORET 


Approved For Release 2001/03/06 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008600570002-7 


