| I : : : i 


rr z : . 7 F . : 
Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/21 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700010456-3 
; mf 


wor! 


é CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL 


— CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPOR 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CO NO. 


50X1-HUM 


; COUNTRY Korea DATE OF 
: INFORMATION 1950 
SUBJECT Political - Parties 
HOW « DATE DIST. 2 Oct 1951 
PUBLISHED Weekly periodical 
WHERE . 


PUBLISHED Seoul NO. OF PAGES 2 


DATE 


PUBLISHED 27 Avg 1950 
SUPPLEMENT TO 


LANGUAGE Korean REPORT NO. 


THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


SOURCE Chuganbo, /organ of the Korean Labor Party/, No 3, 1950. 


KOREAN LABOR PARTY STRESSES 
CLOSE RELATIONSHIP WITH PUBLIC 


Lenin and Stalin always emphasized that the party must maintain close re- 
lations with the public. The Korean Labor Party, which follows the organiza- 
tion experiences of senior revolutionary parties, has always endeavored and 
continues to endeavor to strengthen and consolidate its relationship with the 
nonmember public. The maintenance of such @ relationship is an important con- 
@ition in making correct party decisions in our Labor Party and also for the 
People's Republic. In making every decision and plan, the vast experiences z 
of the people as well 8s the experiences of other leaders and ordinary workers 


must be utilized. 


Thus, to solve problems correctly, it is necessary to add the experiences 
of the working public to the experiences of its leaders. Often the leaders 
have one-sided views on issues and on people because their views are from the 
top. Consequently, their experiences are limited to a certain extent. On the. : 
other hand, the working public looks on issues and the people from the other " 
side, the botton. Consequently, their views’ are also limited to some extent. a 
wWhese two groups wust unite to solve problems correctly. 

As stated above, the close relationship with the public renders a great 
deal of assistance toward arriving at correct decisions, but a good decision 
is merely the beginning of a task. ‘The real result is determined by the organ- 
ized struggle to carry out the decision and by the participation of the vast 
working public. Therefore, after a decision is made, the party units must put 
nonparty groups into motion and create a deep understanding of the task among ; 
the working, public, utilizing all methods of propaganda to arouse interests. 
Only thus can the party's decision become the property of the public and pene- 
trate its consciousness. Then, the decision becomes 4 compelling force and 
activates the task that was proposed in the decision. The necessity for close 
relationship between the public, the party, and, its leaders, therefore, is 
again ani “again emphasized. . 


€ 


> 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/21 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700010456-3 | 
7 


ROWFIDENTIAL 
CONFIDENTIAL ~ | 0X1-HUM 


Secondly, our party, in most cases, works with the public through the 
party cells, i.e., the party cells are in direct contact with the public and 
generally live among them. Consequently, it is especially important for the 
party cells always to practice their agitational and organizational functions 
among the public, thus. carrying out: the’ decisions of the party and extending 
its assistance to the public. Moreover, every party member must keep in touch 
with the policies and decisions of the People's Republic. 


The organizer and the leader of our party, Comrade Kim Il-song, has-em- 
phasized that he would severely. attack pureaucratic and careless tendencies 
in the party which isolate the party from the public. He said, "We must es- 
tablish a habit of going to the public and loverwclass members of the party 
to explain party iutentions to them and to study their psychology and lead 
them along the road of purposeful accomplishment. We must establish a habit 
of leading them, not by giving them orders, but by siding with them and by 
educating, them.” . 


Every unit of our party must concentrate on strengthening the relation- 
ship between the party and the grublic on the basis of the teachings of our 
party leaders and on the fundamental rules governing organization of the party. 


