INTELLOFAX 2 2 | p 49 
ae ; Approved For Release 2001/¢5A0 22h hs2-00457R008900040010-3 rf ig 


29X1A 
*. CLASSIFICATION ae a 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY a 


INFORMATION REPORT cp no. 


COUNTRY Korea DATE DISTR. 5 Oct. 1951 
SUBJECT Chinese Coumunist Influence in the North Korean NO. OF PAGES 2 
Army and Government 


22 @ NO. OF ENCLS. 


MW (LISTED BELOW) 


25X1X my HEE OY A 1 
PLAC vay ia 
ACQUIRE! ad Glee lode 


DATE OF 3 DO N t CIRCULATE SUPPLEMENT To 25X1X 


INFO. REPORT NO. 


1. Chinese-trained North Korean officers and officials who speak fluent Chinese 
have beon placed in various coumand channels of the North Korean Army and 
government under the pretense of effecting fluid coordination of operations 
with the Chinese Conmmnist forces, High-ranking North Korean officers and 
officials include: Lieutenant General KI Mu-chong, Chief of Artillery and 
Chief of Staff for Supply, Comoined “encral Headquarters; PAK ll-u, Linister 
of Internal Affairs and Deputy Chief of Staff, Combined General Headquarters; 
and KI. Chang-man, Chief of Staff, North Korean Army General Headquarters. 

In early September there was no definite evidence that the Chinese-trained 
North Korean Coununists were planning to take over the North Korean governnent. 
However, all pro-Chinese Coumunist North Korean officors have received 
promotions rapidly, on the recoimendation of the Chinese Comuunists, including 
the three mentioned sbove, and 75 percent of the North Korean officers in 
command of units above battalion size are Chinese Comuunist-trained, 


2, PAK Il~u is still playing both sides and is highly regarded and well-liked by 
both the Chinese Communist generals and Kiii U-song, although vAK maintains 
a safehouse for the anti-KLi Jl-song faction. PAK is maintaining a hold over 
the hot-headed young officers who coupose the Central juard Brigade, Kil.'s own 
personal body guard, who are aware of the anti-KIi Ol-song group. The Central 
Juard Brigade wishes to eliminate the group threatening KIi. Ti-song, and only 
Pak can hold them in check. 


3. Ata special meeting on 13 Septenber high-ranking Chinese Communist and North 
Korean Comuunists discussed the party line in the North Korean Army. The 
North Koreans claimed that there was increasing discord between Korean officers 
and North Korean political coumissars since the entrance of the Chinese Communists 
into the Korean war. The North Korean party line has been cou letely ignored 
by Chinese Comuunist officers in front-line sectors, creating a gap between 
the army and the political commissars. At the beginning of the war, Kit Il-song's 
clique did not realize the extent of the infiltration of Chinese Coummists into 
the North Korean Arny. Large nuubers of pro~Chinese Communist officers now 
hold high-ranking positions and the North Korean clique is beginning to work 
to counteract this influence. In the 3 Septewber meeting the Chinese Comuunists 
won; it was agreed that the North Korean political coumissars were to be 


: CONFIDENTIAL 
_____ CLASSIFICATION CRP 


ec ae oe 


29X1A 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : 


Co 


he 


“GONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2001) 4.2idaiCJA-RDP82-00457R0089000400493 A 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


a 2 = 


subordinate to Chinese Commnist political commissars on an equal echelon. 


The xeason for the Chinese victory at the meeting wis the Chinese claim that 
North Korea was near collapse and unable to meet Communist requirenents. The 
North Koreans reluctantly agreed for the following reasons: 


Ao 


‘De 


So 


do 


There are too many desertions from the North Korean Army. Even among 
troops being transported to the rear, large numbers of defections 
are reported. 


There is no equipment available for the North Koreans, and the Chinese 
Cownunists are furnishing very little because of infrequent pressure 
by the Soviets. 


The Chinese Communists were obviously paving the way for a negotiated 
peace by frequently describing their troubles on the mainland and 
expressing a desire to return hone where they are neededo 


The morale of the North Korean civilians is at the lowest ebb with the 
coming of winter. The people would welcome a Chinese Commmist and 
North Korean defeat. Prior to 15 August, six riots occurred in 
Pyongyang and the neighboring towns of Chinnampo, Taepyong, and 
Chinji~dong. Even after the riots were quelled, the rioters were 
openly hoatile to the commands of the police. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


AaRORET 


Approved For Release 2001/12/04 : CIA-RDP82-00457R008900040010-3 


