. | : ; | | 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/21 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700010629-1 = 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENSIAIA _— 
ONFIDENTIAL,. 50X1-HUM: 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


COUNTRY Korea DATE OF 

INFORMATION 1948 
SUBJECT Economic - Industry, rehabilitation 
HOW DATE DIST. /9 oct 1952 
PUBLISHED Monthly periodical 
WHERE 
PUBLISHED Ptyongyang NO. OF PAGES 4 
DATE 
PUBLISHED 15 Dec 1948 

SUPPLEMENT TO 

LANGUAGE Korean REPORT NO. 


TION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 


THE EAMG, org THE REVELATION THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


UTHORIZED PEASON IS PRO- 


SOURCE Tae jung Kwahak ‘Popular Science), special issue, published by North 
Korean Industrial Technicians League. 


SQVIZEY ARMY'S TECENICAL ASSISTANCE TO_NORTH KOREA 


The echnical assistance rendered by the Soviet Army to the 
North Korean industrial, transportation, and communication systems 
during its occupation included teaching industrial skills to na- 
tive technicians. Now, in 1948, the North Koreans can manage mod- 
ern machines vith skill and are able to produce independently more 
than 100 new products. Numerous power stations, mines, and plants, 
which were destroyed by the Japanese, have been restored. 


Soviet Army engineers belped ts rebuild the Hwanghae Ironworks, 
Hungnan People’s Chemical Factory, Kangson Steel Plant, Ch'ongjin 
Tronvworks, Choson Kuksan Sugar Factory, Namp'o Iron Refinery, and 
many others. The Soviet Army also helped to restore the railroad 
system of North Korea. Soviet engineers introduced new methods 
of making coke by substituting Sakhalin and native coal for the 
Manchurian coal which the Japanese had used. The Soviet Arny § 
taught the Koreans new methods of operation and management of in-  ? 
dustry, including the "independent accounting system" which the 
Koreans had not heard of before. 


North Korean technicians and specialists realize better than anyone else 
how much of their success they owe to assistance in advanced technology rendered 
py the So 1e% Army. Actually, if the Soviet Union had not given us technical 
assistance, we could not in so short a time have reconstructed and built up our 
industrial transportation, and communication systems which were destroyed by 
the Japanese. ; 


Tre Japanese imperialists not only did not teach Korean workers technical 
skilis, they even forbade them to enter or work close to certain important areas. 
Consequently, among the Korean population, to which the North Korean industrial, 
transportation, and communication systems were returned by the kindness of the 
Soviet Army, there could be found only 19 percent of the industrial technicians 2 
needed, 38 percent of the mining s:ecialists, and 3 percent of the transport : 
specialists. Even these people were less skilled than is ordinarily required. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


a ee 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 
Kar 
oie oe 


mee Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/21 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700010629-1 F 7 


| 


Release 2011/09/21 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700010629-1 
— 


Sanitized Copy Approved for 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL | 


The Soviet Army not only liberated us and returned to us all our industrial, 
transportation, and communication systems, but they also gave tremendous assist- 
ance in the restoration and operation of damaged machines. They sent us tech- 
nicians and specialists who gained experience in restoring and building the 
people's economy in sheir own land after tne war. They also taught progressive 
production methods to our workers. As a result, our technicians: and workers 
todey sre able to manage the gigantic modern machines with skill and are able 
to produce for themselves more than 100 new industrial products, which even 
the Japanese were not able to produce during their occupation. 


Restoration of bamaged Industrial Instaliations 


Malicious Japanese imperialist bandits damaged ali the industrial instal- 
jations in Korea. Within North Korea alone, they damaged 19 hydroelectric power 
stations, flooded c4 wines, damaged or partially flooded 178 wines, completely 
wrecked #7 industrial plants and a number of large factories, and wrecked the 
transportation and communication systems The following are a few examples of 
the assistance of the Soviet Army in rehabilitating +he industries of Korea. 


In January 1946, the Bureau of industry of the People's Republic assigned 
saree tethuiciens, Il'in, Karashilov, and Shevyagin to restore the Hwanghae 
Tronworks. Toney divided among themselves the jobs of rebuilding blast fur- 
neces, coke cvéens, and open-hearth furnaces, and they drew up detailed plans. 

rolenko of Soviet Army Headquarters also pointed ou‘ the problems 
with before proceeding with the plans for the reconstruct- 
ing He had the furnaces cleaned of the 
old slag en the fire was extinguished. After 
removing the bricks, he perscnslly directed the task of installing more than 
170 , 000 heat-resistant bricks capable of withstanding temperatures in excess 
of 1,600 degrees centigrade. 


Engineer Karashilov stressed the necessity of restoring the coke ovens 
pefore rebuilding biast furnaces, and made it possible to reconstruct the 
damaged coke cvens with over 300,000 heat-resistaz* bricks. The No 2 blast 
furnace started operating on 3 November 1947, following the complete restora- 
tion of the soke ovens on 21 July 1927. 


Since the Japanese had used Manchurian coal to wake coke, the acquisition 
of raw material was major difficulty after the Liberation. However, 4 Soviet 
engineer solved this problem by discovering a new method of mixing other coals. 
A Sovier engineer also made two trips to Sakhalin to investigate the quality 
cf Sakhalin coal and to solve the transportation problea entailed in shipping 
coal to North Kerea. During the Japanese occupation, the production of coke 
with over &G degrees of caloric power was possible only with Sakhalin coal, 
but now the production of equally good coke is doubled because of the dis- 
covery of a new production method using native coal. 


Engineer I1'in contributed a great deal to the manufacture of boilers and 
containers for the production of blister steel. . 


In the world-famous Hvngnam People's Chemical Factory, Engineer Grigor'yev 
gave wuch assistance during his stay cf more +han a year. In January and Febru- 
ary 1947, iron sulfide was difficult to obtain and the sulfuric acid plant out- 
put was seriously affected, but by introducing @ method of mixing iron oxide 
and iron sulfide, the plant was able to continue operations. Moreover, by the 
removal of sulfur from the iron oxide, Grigor'yev was very successful in con- 
serving iron sulfide and in increasing production. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


SDs 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/21 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700010629-1 


fo 
| } 


00010629-1 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/21 : CIA RDP80-O0808A0007 
7 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 50X1-HUM 


djuch help was also given in reinstalling the tubular rotating furnaces in 
the Thong jin Ironwork This is the only installation of its kind in Asia and 
auring the Japanese occupation the only person able to operate it was 4 German 
engineer. However, under the cirection of Engineer Kolbin and four others, the 
furnaces, conveyer pelts, upright bucket conveyers, and transformer substations 
were repaired and rebuilt As 4a result, Furnaces No 5 and 6 were operating in 
April 19k8. and Furnace No 3 resumed operations on 5 September 1948, 


In the Kangson Steel Plant. as 2 result of Engineer Kolbin's direction and 
organization, *ne pig-iren works, the oipe factory, and rolling will have been 
reronstructed. Beginning in November 1948, the production of velling stock will 
be in full operation for the first time in Korean history . 


In the restoratica or the Chosen Kuksan Sugar Factory. which was reorganized 
ag & 35pe 1L chemical Tactory during The Japanese secupabion, the Soviet engi- 
reers drew detailed blueprints, puilt the macnines themselves, and planned the 
factory Layout 


In the repurlding of the Namp's Iron Fefinery by around-the-clock efforts, 
Soviet Engines rs Del'nikov, Bochar'yev, and Yeshibev, succeeded in using bri- 
quettes i aa of coke in the refining process. They also built blast furnaces 
ang vis Song jin and other areas to search for and obtain raw materials. 

They even went out to search for mines They also yisited the Songnim Lime - 


etont Quarry in Ptyongen Pukto, improving ard mechanizing it. 


+. 1s impossible +o describe 411 the other assistance given us. In the 
complete reccevery of the railroads, 6 grear deal of help was given. The Soviet 
Army railroad units gave direct technical advice while riding with our loco-~ 
motive engineers everyday. They even operated the Locomotives themselves on 
such difficult stretches as those vetween Yangkok and Pyongyang, and between 


Yengdiok and Kowon- They were also thorough in their supervision of Locomotive 
repairs. 


Operation asd Management’ of Industry 
Sicce moss of the important industry 1c Kures was owned and operated ex- 
clusively by she monopolistic Japanese capitalis*s, the Korean people did not 
have oven a basic knowledge ct industriel operation 4nd management. Conse- 
quently, after the Japanese were expeiled, it was not easy +O systenatize, 
operate, and manage industry. New and special methods of operation and manare- 
ment were absolutely necessary, especially since all industry was nationalized. 
In this field, too, the Soviet Army teught us advanced technical methods and 


gave us enthusiastic assistance. 


Our workers, who had not even heard of such words as “independent cost- 
accounting system" and who were at first confused with the independent ac- 
counting end palanced system of management, ave now able to handle this 
systen smoothly. They have also set up a system of awards for piecework. 


4 Acquiring Advanced Production Techniques 


The great Soviet Army encouraged us tO take the initiative from the very 
first day of their stay in our land by saying: "To ve the chief contributors 
to their own welfare and to achieve a high degree of economic development, the 
Korean people must have superior production methods." 


In the Aoji Coal Mine, Engineer Sizgryannikov taught our laborers coal- 


mining methods. He actually demonstrated the technique of mining coal by 
going into the mine himself every day. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


-3- 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/21 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700010629-1 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 50X1-HUM 


Engineer IL'in organized a technical training club at the Hwanghae Ironworks, 
which met once a week. There he taught us technical matters in great detail, 
particularly the system of approaching technical problems through research dis- 
cussions. 


The above is only 4 partial description of the technical assistance given 


by the mighty Soviet Army in the establishment of a democratic economy in North 
Korea, which is 4 guiding light for the advancement of the Asiatic peoples. 


CONFIDENTIAL 
-h- 


CONFIDENTIAL 


