a Satoed 


a - 
Sanitize 


ar oe MOM RNY fe weak a eproee al en ‘ . a 
d Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/23 : ClA-RDPE0-J0809A0007 CO0PO0EE S 
r : 
| } za . 
—conerenrza, SUNTIDENTIAL —— : 


CLASSIFICATION Oa 
SECURTTY INFORMATION 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT 50X1-HUM 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMENTS OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO. 


COUNTRY Korea DATE OF q 
INFORMATION 1948 co 
SUBJECT Economic - Technological development = 
HOW DATE DIST. 2 Nov1952 P 
PUBLISHED Thrice-monthly periodical E 
WHERE 3 
PUBLISHED Pyongyang NO. OF PAGES @ 
DATE 
PUBLISHED Jan 1948 
SUPPLEMENT TO E 
LANGUAGE .  Xorean REPORT NO. q 


THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 

OF THE UMITED STATES. 
5 . 2D AMD 32,48 AMENDED. ITS TRANSH 
STENTS In ANY MANBER TO AM UNAUTHORIZED PERSON 18 PRO 
iT LAW. ALPRODUCTION OF THIS Form 18 PROHIBITED. 


THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


SOURCE Pukchoson T'ongsin (North Korea News), No 19, published by Pukchoson 


T'ongsin-sa, 19) s 


NORTH KOREAN INDU“*PIAL TECHNICIANS | LEAGUE 
AND TECHNOLOGICAL . “TOPMENT OF NORTH KOREA 


The North Korean Industrial Technicians’ League, which embraces 
all the industrial pechnicians in North Korea, is an important member 
of the Democratic Front: for Unification of the Fatherland. It was : 
organized after the 1945 liberation to unite all the technicians in 4 
North Korea and improve their technological skills. 


The league has ‘gontributed greatly toward the postwar industrial 
reconstruction of North Korea. It has mobilized its members to 
carry out various postwar reforms planned by the North Korean People's 
Committee to achieve the People's Economic Program. To stimulate 
technological research, the league sponsored research contests in 
the field of invention and design. 


The league pays close attention to the technological education 
of its members, supervises, 51x industrial night colleges; and pub- 
lishes a scientific organ. By the end of 1947, some 2 ,000 high-grade 
technicians were licensed by the North Korean People's Committee. 


- Immediately following the 1945 liberation of.Xorea the Industrial Techni- 
ae eee, cians' Association was organized, by the. techniy ‘tng in North Korea. However, - : 
Bo , to develop North Korea along democrat? c lines = . to unite all the industrial ; q 
oo technicians in North Korea, a broader and. stronger organization was needed. 
Consequently, ,in April 1946, the Tndustrial’@echnicians ' Association was reorgan- 
-4zea into the North Korean Industrial Technicians’ League. Its membership in- 
cluded all the industrial technicians in North Korea. ; q 


The North Korean Industrial Technicians ' League, as an organization affili- 
ated with the Democratic Front ‘for Unification of the Fatherland, mobilized. the 
valuabiie skills and patriotic enthusiasm of all technicians, to carry out various 
postwar democratic ‘yeforms set forth by the North Korean People's Committee. 


« 


ae4 


Copy Approved for Release 2011/08/23 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700020086-3 = 
rc yt 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Aes 


“Sanitized 


50X1-HUM 


In October 1946, the league created nine special committees on mining, 
electricity (low-voltage and high-voltage groups), machinery, construction, : 
irrigation engineering, architecture », chemistry, and textiles. The Indus- . 
trial Technicians' League also reinforced the strength of its local organiza- y. 
tions. . " 4 


The member technicians of the league accomplished tremendous results in, 
solving difficult problems of industrial technology, particularly in the repair 
and rebuilding of machines and plants necessary for increasing production. New 
ideas and inventions continually evolved as the People's Economic Program pro- 
gressed and the technicians became increasingly enthusiastic about technological 
research. é 


In July 1947, the league's branch at the Hungnam People's Factory announced 
to all industrial technicians in North Korea 15 specific research contests in 
she fields of invention and design, with the uim of exceeding the quotas origi- 
nally set up by the People's Economic Program for these fields. ‘'. 


The technological competition resulted ina constant stream of inventions . = 
and new Gesigns in manufacturing, transportation, communications, and other 
fields. : 3 ine 


The following are a few examples of many technological improvements achieved: 
production of alcohol from caroide; discovery of a paraffin substitute; production 
of copper pipe, copper wire, copper plate and silicon steel plate; production of 
_pistons and millstones; success in the test-manufacturing of a-pressure roller; a 
invention of a wooden telephone receiver and transmitter, and of a battery-operated a 
switchboard; manufacture of parts for an automatic switchboard; remodeling of . 
teletype machines which print in the Korean language; improvements in portable 
telephones; and remodeling single switchboards into multiple switchboards. 


The successful production of alumina cement made possible the production 
‘of higher quality briquette. The success in manufacturing machines and machine : 
ret ‘parts and the revamping of the production systems assured results even better a 

than those called for by the People's Economic Program. # 

The nine special committees made great technological contributions in their 
respective fields. In the restoration of the Sariwon Textile Mill, the Textile 
Committee organized a reconstruction group to rebuild the weaving machines. 
Three hundred weaving machines were rebuilt, thus increasing the datput by 280 
percent over that at the beginning of 1946. The task of restoring and putting 
into operation the P'yongyang Chemical Textile Mi11, the only one of its kind 
in North Korea, began in December 1947. A large number of technicians were 
mobilized for this task. : 


Under decision No 89 of the North Korean People's Committee, 2 7196 bigh- 
grade technicians were selected and licensed on the basis of nationwide examina - 
tions given by that committee in February and November 1947. ; 


The league pays close attention to the technological education of its members, 
7 to the development of industrial technology in the factories,.and to the study 
ie ; . of scientific theory. The six industrial night colleges operated by the league 
; have a current enrollment of 2,000 stydents and lave published over 30 technolog- 
* 4cal textbooks. The league's organ, Taejung Kwahak (Science for the Masses) 4 
the general working public, is doing an outstanding job. ; a 


sie 


-END- 


-2- 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CONFIDENTIAL fy a ee 


