; Approved For Release 2006/04/14 : sienna CS 7) 


ae CLASSIFICATION _ conPrpentraz ” 
cas SECURITY TFORMATY On a? 
aka bse CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT NO. ws 
INFORMATION REPORT = cpno. 25x11 
COUNTRY China DATE DISTR. 5 Hovewher 19451 
SUBJECT Chinese Communist Methods of Securing NO.OF PAGES 2 


Medical Volunteers for the Korean Front 


25x11 mee fe TPA a re a ay pi 
PLACE Aa, By - py ie As Ph NO. OF ENCLS. 
a lr wi Lal ulw yy, 
y ‘SUPPLEMENT TO 
pe OF DO NOT CIRCULATE RECORT NG. 26x1 


THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


i. From about November 1950, volunteer medical units began to go from Chinese 
cities into Manchuria and Korea in increasing numbers, Well known hospital 
doctors and very prosperous practitioners from Peking, Tientsin and Shanghai 
are found among the members of the volunteer unite. 


2. Members ere recruited for such volunteer units in the following way. Party 
members or their supporters take a volunteer roll call sheet te the hospital 
offices for signatures. First they visit the head of the hospital, who is a 
non=party member in most places south of the Great Wall. Fully aware of the 
political pressure behind such a request, the head of the hospite] has very 
little choice but te sign. With the head's signature on, the sheet is then 
taken to the division and departmental chiefs. Similarly aware of the 
political pressure and conscious of the watching eyes in his own divi sion or 
department, there is again no alternative but to sign up, Armed with signatures 
of the executives, the sheet is next circulated among the staff dectors who, 
in almost all cases, are obliged to out down their names. 


3. In this way, the executives, doctors, nurses and attendants of the whole 
hospital become volunteers for service on the Korean front. The authorities 
then select from this list a certain number to organize a volunteer medical 
unit to be sent out. The others are held in readiness to go when the first 
unit returns. 


4. The signing up of private practitioners is far less complete than in the case 
of hospitals, So far as is known, the proportion of private doctors in the 
volunteer units is small, perhaps lese than 10 per cent. The first approach 
is made to the well known and prosperous doctors, Under persuasion they soon 
find it wise to put their names down on the volunteer sheet, for they realize 
that their security is politically determined, that many of them have an 
Anglo-American educational background and that the government estimate of 
income and business taxes might have some connection with their willingness 
to serve. Furthermore, if he is a prosperous doctor, a few months’ absence 
while at the front will not starve his family. All such considerations taken 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL = 
es 


Sagas aay 
aia Itt 


ame bi 
Daeclassified 
{ Glass. Changed To: ts § 


t 
1 Auth: 2 Ta. 
Approved For Release 2006/04/14 : CIA-RDP dcadgas 7b gh BUD 10012- |_| TAT 
. : oodenines Teteie ee te a 


* Neneh inatLerte metathesis nee 


De 


7. 


’ Approved For Release 2006/04/14 : CIA-RDP82-00457R009100210012-9 


CONFIDENT TAL 25X1 
SUCURITY INFORMA’ 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ACENCY | 


a 2 ww 


together, he, like the hospital doctors, will sut his name down for volunteer 
service. Then he is given the duty of rallying the other less well known 
people to join, 


many doctors balked. 25X11 

The whole drive for volunteers 

slowed down, and the political authorities took action on the case, almost 
e him to resign 5x1 


However, in Peking there is more personal freedom than in other places, 
In Canton, the staffs of entire hospitals silently signyup, especially the 
government hospitals like the Central Hospital. ia 


Most. of the volunteer unite do not-go directly to the Korean front, but stey 
at the rear base hospitals in Manchuria in such places as Changchun. Those 
who have returned say that, though they are umaid, the food and living 
conditions provided are excellent, and the working equipment and base 
hospitals are first-class. 


Volunteer teams go by rotation, each team staying about 4 months. Once they 
are in Manchuria, their morale is sald to be high. The rotation system is 
set up partly to avoid protracted withdrawal of doctors from medical 
institutions and crippling of medical services, axd partly to give as many 
doctors as possible the experience and training of militery medicel service. 
Perhaps for the latter reason, even the staff of the railway infirmary of 
the Canton-Hankow Line is now called upon to send volunteer units un to the 
fr ont. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2006/04/14 : CIA-RDP82-00457R009100210012-9 


