Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79RO01012A001700010019-4 — 


SECURITY IN'ORMATION 


_ OFFICE OF NATIONAL ESTIMATES - 


15 November 1951 


MEMORANDUM FOR THE BOARD 


FROM: ‘Task Team, NIE 55 | 
SUBJECT : Communist Intentions with Respect to Hostilities in Korea 


1. The following discussion of Communist intentions is presented 
without benefit of the latest IAC assessment of indications and of enemy 
capabilities, botn essential to an analysis of intentions. It therefore — 
represents only a preliminary end tentative presentation of Staff views 

_ and has been prepared primarily to serve as & basis. for Board Sumas 
_ @f the Staff... 


2. There are several divergent aithorttative- views of Comaunist 
intentions in Korea... This situation results from the fact that most of 
_ the determ‘nants of intentions are of a subjective character and that the 
most important objective determinant, capabilities, presents problems of 
_ assessment from an absolute point of view as well as from the point of 
“wiew of its relative importance as a determining factor. The following 
are representecive of views currently hedd by various. Severe’ sources? 


a. The Chinese Communists strongly desire a cease fire while 7 
the Soviets and North Koreans desire a continuation of the war. 


De The, Soviets want a cease fire, but the Chinese Communi ste 
desire a continuation ef the conflict.. 


Bo Cease-fire talks were initiated piney as -& ates strategen 
to mask preparations for further offensive operations in Korea. 


d. ‘fhe Chinese Communists will go on fignting indefinitely 
since their original terms for a cease: fire along or near the 38th — 


. 4p, . Parallel were. rejected. 
> DOCUMENT No, 
Yes NO chance i a>——— 
3 SX DECLASSIFIED | fly ae 
7 LASS. CHANGED To; Ts sc | ueRise— 
NEXT REVIEW DATE: eo oa ; 
AUTH: R 102 ae STAT 


| Declassified in Part - ‘Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA- RDP79R01012A001700010019- 4 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 . 


Go. If there. is a cease fire in Korea, the Commnists will 
relax their pressures elsewhere in the Far ac 


f. ‘If tnere is a cease fire tn Korea, the Communists will 
eee their presqures elsewhere in the Far East. 


3. In the following paragraphs we will discuss three’ major questionas 
A. Do the Communists want a cease fire in Korea and if 80, on what terms? 
B. If a cease fire is not achieved, what courses of action will the Com- 
manists follew in Korea und elsewhere in the Far East? and C. If a cease 
fire is achieved in Korea, what couxses of action will the Comminists follow 
in Korea and elsewhere in the Far East? 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79RO1012A001700010019-4 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 


SECURITY INFORMATION . 


4, We believe that the Chinese Communists desire a cease fire in Korea — 
- and hops to obtain an agreement along the existing military line without make 
ing further camitments for inspection, exchange of P's, or withdrawal of 
| foreign troops, If a cease fire.on these terms cannot be obtained, wedo not 
believe that the Chinese Communist desire for a cease fire is so strong as to 
prompt the Chinese Communists to make more then token consessions to other UN 
conditions in further negotiations for a cease fire, We believe that the USSR 
bas been even less willing than the Chinese Communists to negotiate a cease . 
fire short of the 38th Paraliel but, being umvilling or unable to provide the 
. assistance necessary fer decisive Commnist militery action im Korea, apparent- 
ly is offering no serious cbjections to present Chinese Commnist cease-fire 
efforts, We believe that the North Kerean regime probably desires a contimua- 
tion of efforts to drive UN forees from Korea, or at least desires the re- 
. gstablishment of the 38th Parallel ae but is foresd to aah its posi- 
ton to that of the USSR and Commnist Ching.. 


‘This assessment of Commni.st interitions is based ; an part ea the. 
collewing considerations s 


—_ Be Gms. fer at least, both the Chinese Commmists and the USSR. 
‘apparently have limited their semitnents in Keres, ‘The ‘Chinese appser 
“ -. $oheve baen wailing tesisxe exhausting their resoirces to drive UN foress 
i beyond the 38th Parallel; and the USSR has,apparently besn unwilling to | 
—_  pisk generel war by participating in the Koream hostilities to the eatent 
ee . necessary to provide the Geamunists with the capability of destroying UN 
. forces in Korea, The USSR almost certainly mist have caleulated ini~- . 
tially that the North Koreans would quickly overrun Korea. Several months 
. later, the introduction of new foress became essential -- in the Comuun- 
ist view -- to preserve the security of the Chinese and Soviet frontiers — 
and. to Pestore the North Korean regime and the prestige of international 
Commie, At least ops reason for the use of Chineso Commnist rather 
than, Soviet forces was prebably the Commmist desire %o gen be 
giccal var... Again, i% met have appeared Sa S 


and even to defend North Korea, and maintedn tho eet ef Communis 
_ forees in Kerea. 


De Although the Chinese — been comnitting HGPS sAushey oqulont 
Korea, and although the Soviets have made stremious efforts to build . 
mist alr eapabilitios, it stdil dees not ppear that the Commnl 

paring te ecmmnit purtieien’ strength in Korea te defeat the UN 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 


| Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 
Gi. oo ‘ : 


SECURITY INFORMATION 


 Lorees, This could only bs done if both the Chinese and Soviets were — 
willing to mike mach greater commitment in Korea involving grave risks of 
global war, Chinese and Seviet strategy for Asia probably dees not re~ 
quire an immediate achievement of their objectives at the risk of general 
war, Rather, it is loag term and patient, Time will split the unity of 
the West, time will enable Russia to arm and train a modern Chinese army, 

- t4ms is dn the Communist favor in SEA where the Mberation armies with 
ciepaie tl support are prepared for long-term struggles after the pattern of 
Mae's : China, : : ; : a 


c, Meanvhile the support of the Korean war has resulted in mounting 
_ bressureg on the Chinese Communist and North Korean regime, and the 
_. political, economic, and military strains in China promise te increase as 
_ ‘the war econtimues, Furthemore, these strains result from a.campaign = 
whieh, in terms of the present Commnist commitment, no longer offers — 
promise of a successful military resolution and which has inhibited sup~- — 
. port to revolutionary activity in SEA, . . 


2 ad, As the Korean war continues and Chiness Gemamist resourses are 
dissipated in Korea, Peiping becomes increasingly dependent on the USSR, 
However, it is likely that a high priority Chinese Communist objective 
is to develop a sufficiently strong seoromie and military position to in- 
sure equality in their relationships with the USSR, ‘hus, the Chinese 
Communists may desire a cessation of hostilities in Korea not only because 
_ the opefatien has bsen costly but because a tactical retreat in Korea will | 
afford opportunities for preparing fer long-range majer struggles. 


@,. The USSR has a great prestige stake in Korea in that the North 
Korean regime was @ Soviet creation. If the Kremlin has estimated that 

4% could avoid involvement in general. war indefinitely, it probably would 
be willing to have ari indecisive Korean conflict contime in order to 
(2) avoid an’ unsatisfactory settlement in Korea; (1%) continue the drain 
on Western resources as part of a global effort to atrain the economies 
amd military effort of the West; (144) increase the vulnerability of 
Commmist China to Soviet penstration and control, and (iv) provide op- 
portunities for combat experience for Soviet pilots and an evaluation of — 

Soviet and UN equimment. 2 +3 


2. Arguments to the effect that the USSR desires a cease fire in | 

Korea as part of a plan to promote the relaxation of international ten- — 
siong does appear to be supportable, There are few indications that the 
present strategy of the USSR is directed to such an end. . Rather, Soviet 
strategy appears to be based on a "belligerent defense” 4n which the ‘ 

. USSR holds on to everything 4% has; deliberately maintains and even pro-~ 
motes tensions; devotes a, maximm effort to defensive preparations; and 
waits for the West to weaken as Soviet-provoked tensions create exploit- 
able social and economic pressures within the Western sllianse, —_ 


-4~ 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 


J. 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release ~—o 8: CIA-RDP79R01 012A001700010019-4 


ms “m8 SECURITY THFORATTON 


6. Another view of Cominmist intentions for which a strong argument ean 
be made is that the continuation of the cease-fire ‘talks heve beeoms a strategen 
designed to cover the air build-up in Manchuria and the training and deployment 
_ inte Korea of Chinese Commmist units equipped with modern Soviet weapons. 

This assessment of Commmist intentions may, in fact, be anly a modification of 
the estimate made 4n Paragraph 4 since it, too, rests on the belief that the 
Commmists initially desired a cease fire on favorable terms but UN conduct of 
the negotiations convinced them that an acceptable cease fire could not be cb- 

tained. Arguments advanced in support of this or similar views are as followss 


a, ‘The Peiping regime is not disturbed by the losses in Korea and - 
views the continuation of the war as an opportunity to extract modern 
re equipment fron me USSR to en, a modern military force in 
China, 


fact. '6 be One of the satis Chinese Communist ‘objectives in Asia is a weale 
or friendly Japan, UN forces must be driven or withdrawn from Korea to 
 pemit effective action against Japan and to forestall the potential 
threat posed by a re-armed Japan, Therefore, the Chinese cannot accept 
any resolution of the Korean war which doen not result in withdrawal of TH ar 
; forces from Korea, 


- Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 


SECRET — 
SECURITY INFORMATION . 


Bo If a Cease Fire in Korea Is Not Consummated, What Are Probable 


Communist Courses of Action? 


In Korea — 


7. A final breakdown of cease-fire negotiations will almost certainly 
result in a reassessment by the Communists of their military position in- 
Korea. The history of the military operation in Korea makes abundantly — 
evident the fact that the Commmists cannot hope successfully to maintain 
a sustained large-scale military operation without the introduction of 
armor and air power. If the Chinese Communists are to continue hostilities 
in Korea, they almost certainly will endeavor within the limits of their 
capabilities to introduce these two military elements. Intelligence 
reports indicate that the Communists have been moving tanks and artillery 
into Korea, although not in a quantity sufficient to indicate an intention 
to undertake an early offensive. The build-up of air power, however, 

_ which has been substantial in the last few months, may indicate an intene 
tion to conduct large-scale air operations against UN targets 4{neluding UN 
forces. 


8, We believe that the Communists have modified their maximum objec- 
tive of foreing the UN from all of Korea as a consequence of the demonstrated 
capabilities of the UN. Although this maximum objective may have been mod- 
ified, we believe that minimum Communist aims in Korea rexain unchanged. 
Specifically, we believe that Communist retention of a substantial area of 
northern Korea is regarded as vital to the security of the USSR and Comnue 
nist China and that if UN forces succeed in penetrating this area, the USSR 
will introduce additional Soviet forces even at the serious risk of general 
war with the US. : 


Elsewhere in Asia 


9. If cease-fire negotiations break down, we believe that the con- 
tinued presence of the US Seventh Fleet and the increased Communist military 
effort that will be required in Korea will result in an indefinite post= 
ponement of any military action against Formosa. The continuing and heavy 
requirements of the Korean war will further restrict Chinese Communist 
operations with respect to Indochina and Burma. - Large-scale military action 
against both Indochina and Burma would probably not be undertaken. However 
such action against either one of. those countries would still remain a , 

continuing possibility. Unless the Communists decide to greatly increase 
the risk of general war, an attack on Hong Kong or Japan is not probable. 


SECRET 


: i) 6 ) 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 


ae) 


Declassified in n Part - Sanitized Cony approved for Nias 2012/09/18 : ClA- RDP79R01012A001700010019- 4 


tet + 


SECURITY INFORMATION 


C. If a Cease Fire in Korea Is Coidumnted What Are Probable Communist 
Courses of Action? 


10. We believe that 41 Communist China agrees to a cease fire under 
the minimum terms which the UN now postulates, it would be a firm indica- 
tion ef a Chinese Communist intent to concentrate on the development of . 

a stronger economic and military base in preparation for a long term struggle 
against the West rather than an indication of Communist intentions to relax . 


_tensions in the Far East. We believe that the Chinese Communists would use 


resources made available as a result of the diminished commitment in Korea. 
to increase tieir covert assistance to revolutionary movements in SoEoA, 
We do not believe, however, that the Chinese Communists would, within the | 
next year or two, risk a repetition of the Korean exverience by openly 
SVaaINS Indechina or Burma, 


" Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010019-4 


