TOR Hee GH Ri E. : : 
SkCUNL TY DUP On 
ae : aie fess 340 57R0092 iz 25X1A 


Peuple'’s Army to Guerrilla 
25X1A 


PLACE. 
ACQUIRED 


iNFO. @ January 1952 


25X1X Thia order was captured by” 


| | | NO. OF ENCLS. 
fog \ e\h (LISTED BELOW} 
DATE OF AA ; SUPPLEMENT TO 


eh ; 
CG NO. 


DATE DISTR, 50 NOCY O21 


t 


3 UEC CT Order from slipper Headquarters North Korean NO. OF PAGES. "ZO T A 


Branch Corps Commanders 


REPORT NO. 


‘ROE forces just nerth of the 38th parallel on 
an undetermined date, It was written in pencil and entirely in hangul, 
the Korean phonetic aeEIEN: 


sigs Now 002 Secret 
Supreme Hoadguarters Noe | 6 
2 Jenuary 1951 Ptyongyang 
| 1:600,000 49th year published? 
| 


Our brave Psople's army end the Chinese Voluntary arny delivered a strong 
blew to the American imperialists and the RHEE Syngnan puppet army. Thus, 
the enemy has lost its strangth to defend the 38th parallel and has started 


a glsorderly retreats. Our 


advanced to Hongeh’Sn and Kissin. 


Peopleta Army crossed the 38th parallel and 


eOPps, Which are in the enony’ e rear, to enlarge their activity so that 
they can cocperate with our Jrmmy as soon as it advances to the Southe 


1s The &th Branch Guerrilla Corps inoludess 


de KIL Wonep' alts corpa whieh ia advancing toward Ulchin, Yongwon 


and Keson. 


2e Kyonguam eorps whieh is active in the Tansong and Sanch' ong BCGAS 5 


Be Independent guerrl 


lla company which is active in the east near 


Chténgdoe The commandes of the above units is KIL Won-p'al and 
the political aSPapraene branch commander is Nau ayers 


Bo Active ATOS6e 


do let Headquarters i 


2nd Headquarters 4, 


Srd Headquarters 4 


' 
t 


a in the area of Uomun Mountain, Ch’ongdoo 
| (0) 
s in the Chiri Mountain erea. 


3 an the Eweugyo Mountain AY@Ae 


26 They will act iu the Ch: Sngio, Ylaan, Tongnae, itvee, Kumhae , . 


Pusan, Tangeng and 


o 


: LASSIFICATION 
NAVY PO nsre 


2 wi Jogo 


Deeukent “He. ae f 
No Change In Class: [ 
Beclass fied 
Giass, Changed Tor T8 $ 6 © 
aed oNP2 For Release 2 
AOL gh 


CONF iDih WL, 


Sanch, ong erease 


vesraeas 76140008: 1 


Now 1 am giving this order to the guerrilla 


ES a TT 


A ay 


eo a Cee Eee 


2 hi el am) 


v 


mone wr 


, i TR 


PT A 


COBSTDENTIAL 


Repiies For Release 2G00/8/0 & iiOkA4RDP 8 2-00457R00920014000 


Ze 


vx Ganeral Fighting Matters are: 


he 


bo 


he 


Use o11 possible strength in olearing up the Police and 
reaotionary persone; free the countless suffering people 
from the savage administration; recover the adminiatrative 
organs and, at the same time, make the publics join our side 
and makes a strong organizetion with its 


Cut communications lines continually and attack the depart« 
menta of the Chief of Staff to disrupt the command channels. 


Break the enemy transportation lines completely by destroying 
highways, cares and trains. 


Attack air-atrips, ammunition depots, arms warehouses, food 
warchouses and other military supply warehouses and squip= 
mente Thia will decreaze the onemy’s supply and sometimes the 
peopie san be armed with the woapone you seize. 


fry day and aight surprise attacks cn even small American 
and KERE Syngman puppet army unites This will seare the 


| LAY o 


#, Special Fighting Matters. 


? 
Earn) 


he 


Bo 


Bo 


9a 


Inatall mines, destroy bridges, attack the highway transpor= 
tation Lines between Pusan and Ch"ongdo, Pusan and Kydng ju, 
Sammang jin and Masane Thie will atop and decrease enemy 
activi tyo 


Step enemy railway transportation by destroying railways and 
bridges and attack amy | trains between Pusan ard Masan, Pusan 
and Taegu, Pusan and Kyongju- 


Send gome attack units to the Samsonghyon tunnel] at Ch'ongds 
and heve them destroy it or vet fire to supply material fran 
tha rear aréase 


Send seme amall units to Pusen, Miryang, Kyong ju, Taegu, 
Ch'ongde, Ch®angyong , Tansong., Sanohong and Humhae end have 
them attack enemy administrative organa, This will out the 
lines between the front line army and rear oryenas 


Dastroy the locomotive worke at Pusanjin, warshouses at 
So-myén, the Neakdong railway bridge between Sumnangjin and 
Magan, the bridge between Kup‘o and Kwohas, tos arme ware= 
house at Miryange 


Send some assault units to destroy the Kushae and Jlean 
airestripsa and harber equipment in Pusan, Kumnae and Ulsan. 


When the enemy retreats, vcoupy Miryang, Ch’ angyong and Visan 
and form asveral units to hold road intersections, thereby 
stopping the enemy*s retreat and cutting off supplies and 
reinforoements from Pusan and P'ohange 


Strengthen our organizations and form many political movement, 
oorpas Gispateh them to ell places, organize with the publis 
and have it rise up ana tight when our main ferce starts the 
offensive. 


When our main forces. be-ins the offensive. you will unite 


with the North Kyonrsang 3rd Branch Corps and ihe North 
and Douth Cholle 4th Branch Coroas 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2000/08/08 : CIA-RDP82-00457R009200140008-1 


X1A : 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY : 


#4 


_ .@ : 
Approved For Release 0001081085 CHOPS 2- porn 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


wo 


emphasizes that all commanders of branch guerrilla corps must 


Wek 
sar attention to al. of the above and fulfill their fighting 


ashe se 


3. ALL branch corps commanders must respect the 
of the battelions and companies under their corps. 


S11 commanders must send daily war situation reports by radio and 


To 
a waekly written report by the lisison officers 


Korean Feopleta Aruy 
Supreme Canmander of Supreme Headquarters 


(signed) KIM Il-sing 


(signed) YU Song-eh’ol 
Deputy Chief of Staff 


Cftiatal = 7 capies 

Koc = file 

tthers for Branch Corpa 
Mieteated by Pau Ch*ol 


25X1A be | a The meaning of "49th year published” ia unknowo 


25X1A * BE cent Apparently, KIL Won=p"ed wae in oommand of the 
bth Branoh Guerrille Corps. 


25X1A bo PR en Apparently, a precise transiation of the missing 
phrase ig impossible, but the generel meaning is described aa 


"something lesa than independence". 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2000/08/08 : CIA-RDP82-00457R009200140008-1 


