“ id 
Approved For Release 2001/08/24 : CIA-RDP57-00384R001100050011-5 


; -CC2- USSR: OVERSEAS & FAR EAST 
*OGC Has Reviewed* Dec, 6, 1951 


MEMPiIS MOTHER DECRIES KOREAN MADNESS 

Mescow, in English to North America, Dec, 6, 1951, 0015 GMT—H 
(Korean Propram Commentary) 

(Text) . 


"Mrs, (name ziven—Zd.) of Memphis, Tenn., is an American “other, All 
she thought about was the Joy of her son's birth and all her plans for 
his future. Paul was her pride and joy and when he was drafted into 
the army last Deceber and sent to orea she wos in a bid way. At home 
and on the Job she always kept thinking, "Where is Paul now, ow is he 
faring?! An@ often she asked herself the question, 'For whose sake is 
my son fighting in a distent lan so far Prom hone?! 


"When the truce talks began in Korea, Mrs, (name given--Ed,) took heart, 
To her as to thousends of other American mothers it seemed thet her son 

, would soon be back home, She read the reports of the truce talks, but 
days went »y, and finelly some months, The US Command did everything it 
could to draz out the negotiations, The war kept going on, It eventually 
became clear to her that the American Command does not want peace in 
Korea, 


"She sat down end wrote a letter to President Truman demanding that 
the Government put an immediate stop to the war in Koren, What she 
got in reply was a (cold) letter from the White House chancellery, 
sent merely for the sake of courtesy. This was in September, After 
that, Mrs, (name siven--Ed,) received only one letter from her son, 


'I Want to Do Something! 


"What she feared most o2 all case in the second half of October, It 
was a notification from the Department of Defense that her son, Paul, 
was missing in action,, It is hard to relate the ezrief of a nother wno 
has lost her son, Mrs, (name. given--Ed, ) put in a longedistance call 
to President Truman, she wanted to tell him thet it was madness to go 
on with the war in Korea and that everything possible should be done to 
bring about a speedy peace, She was told that the President was not 
availiable, 


"But Mrs, (mame civen--"d,) is not giving up. She does not vant other 
American mothers to share her sorrow and misery. 'Iwant to do something,' 
she said,' to spare the sons anc daushters of the present generation 

from the sufferings war is causing today.’ Such is the moving story of 
(name ziven--Ed,) an? American mother, deseribed in the 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL AFP SEAL, 


Approved For Release 2001/08/24 : CIA-RDP57-00384R001100050011-5 


yer ad 
Approved For Release 2001/08/24 : CIA-RDP57-00384R001100050011-5 


- CC 3 = USSR: OVERSEAS & FAR EAST 
Dec. 6, 1951 


"In her fight for peace, she is not alone, liost Jcseriesns resent the 
Truman Government's action of ‘delaying and dragging out the peace 
negotiations in Korea and the fact thit thousands of American boys are 
continuine to die on the battlefields, The way things turned out for 
(name given--Fd,) may also be the case with many other American mothers 
and fathers, 


"That is why so many peo; le o* various professions and creeds are join- 
ing (name given--Ed,) in demanding a stop to the Korean War, Is it not 
revealing that her appeal to President Truman to do everything possible 
to achieve peace in Korea has found response from all parts of the 
United States? She received hundreds of letters and telecrems of sup= 
port in which Americans from every section of the Nation uphold her 
appeal and insist thet the Truman Government abandon the policy of pro- 
longing the war in Korea, 


The Most Terrible War 


"One can judge the American mood from a letter printed in a local paper 
in Raymond, THE HERALD, (There is a Dayton, Tenn., HERALD but the above 
town name is given without strte--Ed,) 


“According to the author of the letter, people who have gone through all 
the horrors of the so-called police action in Korea say it is the most 
terrible war they have ever witnessed, The writer then goes on to say, 
'Ithought our country was a land of democracy and freedom for the people 
but can a free peocle cllow such a horrible condition to last? Can it be 
possible that our Government has become so corrupt and is so firmly in the 
clutches of greedy politicians thet the voice of the free people can no 
longer be heard? 


"On the initiative of the big American youth organization !mown as 
American Youth Peace Crusade, boys and girls are now collecting signi- 
tures for a Friends ip Week, declaring that twe, the youth of our nation, 
recognize the danger of (var todey) as a threat to our lives, our dreams, 
and our future, and ell upon (the Big Powers) to meet and negotiate a 
pact of peace and friendship open to all nations.' The (pact for) friend- 
ship also declares trie following: ‘We want an immediate end to the Korean 
War, a case-fire nezotiated at once, as the most important initialstep for 
world peace. 


Bon DEES 


Kore:n Film--A new Korean art film, "Korean Partisans," produced bo the 
'Rorean National Motion Picture Studio ond previewed Dec, 3 at the USSR 
Ministry of Cinematography before precentation in Soviet theaters, por- 
trays the Koreans! struggle during October 1950 assinst"the American 
Plunderers and Syngman Rhee mercenaries," with many scenes showing the 
guerrilla-supported Norean People's Army inflicting fatal blows to the 
agressors, (Moscow, in Korean to the Far East, Dec. 5, 1951, 1130 GNT--R) 


Approved For Release 2001/08/24 : CIA-RDP57-00384R001100050011-5 


29X1A 


29X1A 


29X1A 


if . 3 SRE Hey es 
woh page ais ook FS 


” RESTRICTBS® CONFIDENTIAL. SECRET 
1609/08/24 ASIA RID PS 7-00 3840040005001 1-5 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP 


[ThppROVAL LT inrorMATi on L] signature 
Co TAcTion [_] DIRECT REPLY [] RETURN 


omen Ll preparation of repy ———] pispatcu 
_ [2 _leoncurrence [7] recommenpation COLT FILE 


1, MB pubtished the attached iten in 
REMARKS: “he Unclassified Daily Report but deleted - 
the name of the individual concerned as 4 
precaution against possible slander or libel 
action. , 

2. I would welcome your informal opinion 
as to the correctness of our action in this 
matter since it would help us in selecting 

similar material for publication in the future, 


App SF faRg : Oe f ; y RK SIR De 0 ADRES SO5000 1 5 
i FORM NO, 
-GEP 1947 


