| 

Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 
| i sii copy wo. + 

! 


Se al eee 
hoes eg wt. ak? oe 


SECURITY INFORMATION 


| (a) _ 


a 


NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE 


ry Se 
err ee ae ROTTS 


COMMUNIST CAPABILITIES AND 
PROBABLE COURSES OF ACTION 
IN, KOREA THROUGH MID.1952 


- re 
Egat Get vd case din abel nes tate ead 


oe 
7 

i 
i 
t 3 


'  NIE-55 - 
Published 7 December 1951 


2 PT mts seed Erte oT eT ae ene eee mice mes 
(ene bens ge sphothat aetna ee eS Sor. 


AT, 
scare cia cement 


DOCUMENT HO. 

NO GHANGE if! CLASS. 

B DECLASSIFIED : 

CLASS, GHANGED TO: TS S$ C 
KEXT REVIEW DATE: 


AUTH: HA 102 9 
sare: 3f23/3/ neviewens, . ra: ; STAT 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY | 


* PSA myer mee “amen 
ae 


ne 
reget gy 08 2s sot peace eee 
tan tior Leah 3 


t oe . 
. woe: 
oe | ney : 


vet LT ee 
LES eR Ee Ee 


od ares 


RETURN TH ARCHIVES S nEPGRES CENTER 
PMEGIATELY ARIES Us 


ee + : wR TARO A6x_\9 


| | AWN. 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


named 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


WARNING 


This document contains information affecting the na- 
tional defense of the United States within the meaning 
of the Espionage Act, 50 U.S.C., 31 and 32, as amended. 
Its transmission or the revelation of its contents in any 
manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law. 


- Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


arr) cart ang ae EE 


a 


© 
8 re ee 


” 
SENS TE OS eee ea eetig eeeei L+. o 


ee ae nt ee 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


DISSEMINATION NOTICE 


1. This copy of this publication is for the information and use of the recipient 
designated on the front cover and of individuals under the jurisdiction of the recipient’s 
office who require the information for the performance of their official duties. Fur- 
ther dissemination elsewhere in the department to other offices which require the in- 
formation for the performance of official duties may be authorized by the following: 


a. Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Intelligence, for the DED EEN: 
ment of State © 


. Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, for the Department of the Army 

. Director of Naval Intelligence, for the Department of the Navy 

. Director of Intelligence, USAF, for the Department of the Air Force 

. Assistant to the Director, FBI, for the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
. Director of Intelligence, AEC, for the Atomic Energy Commission 

. Deputy Director for Intelligence, Joint Staff, for the Joint Staff 


. Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA, for any other De- 
partment or Agency — ae 


ye %®& Qo ss 


2. This copy may be either retained or destroyed by burning in accordance with 
applicable security regulations, or returned to the Central Intelligence Agency by ar- 


jae 4 rangement with the Office of Collection and. Dissemination, CIA. 


DISTRIBUTION: ; 
Office of the President 
National Security Council 
National Security Resources Board 
Department of State 
Office of Secretary of Defense 
Department of the Army 
Department of the Navy 
Department of the Air Force 
. Atomic Energy Commission 
- Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Research and Development Board 
Munitions Board 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A4001700010001-3 


| Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


SECURITY INFORMATION 


NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE 


COMMUNIST CAPABILITIES AND 
PROBABLE COURSES OF ACTION 
IN KOREA THROUGH MID-1952 


NIE-55 


The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, 
the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Joint Staff par- 
ticipated with the Central Intelligence Agency in the prep- 
: aration of this estimate. All members of the Intelligence 

. Advisory Committee concurred in this estimate on 29 No- _ 
vember 1951. . a: 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


| Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/ 


18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


COMMUNIST CAPABILITIES AND PROBABLE COURSES OF 
ACTION IN NORTH KOREA THROUGH MID-1952 


THE PROBLEM 


To estimate Communist capabilities and probable courses of action in Korea through 
mid-1952 in their relation to the Communist position in the Far East. 


CONCLUSIONS © 


1. We believe that the Communist objec- 


tive, to extend Communist control over . 


all Korea, remains unchanged. 


2. The Communist forces are capable of 
continuing large-scale operations in Ko- 
rea through mid-1952. 


3. We believe that during the period of 


this estimate it will not be possible for 
Communist forces to drive the UN from 


Korea, unless major:Soviet units are di- - 
rectly committed. We do not believe the 


USSR will be willing to commit such units 
because of the inherent risks of precipi- 


tating general war. However, unless the 


present unrestricted Communist air 


~ build-up is checked or countered, we be- 


lieve the growing power of the Chinese 
Communist forces, even without direct 
commitment of Soviet units, will enable 
them to deal severe damage to the UN 
forces and may make it impossible for the 
UN to conduct general offensive opera- 
tions except at prohibitive cost. 


4. Prolongation of the war in Korea at 
present levels would add to the economic 
and political difficulties of Communist 
China and North Korea,. and would in- 


volve increased risk of extension of the 


war, but would be unlikely to have serious 
adverse effects on the USSR or on Sino- 
Soviet relations. 


5. We believe that so long as the Korean 
war continues, the Chinese Communists 
are unlikely to engage in large-scale mili- 
tary operations against Indochina or 
Burma. . 


6. We believe that the Communists de- 
sire a Suspension or termination of hostil- 
ities in Korea, but that their present po- 
sition is not such as to oblige them: to 
accept terms which they may regard as 
Seriously disadvantageous. We believe 
the Communists will protract the military 
negotiations while there is a chance of 
obtaining concessions of actual or propa- 


ganda value. Thereafter, political nego- 


tiations will be prolonged in the confi- 
dence that while negotiations continue 
the UN will not renew or widen hostilities, 


. and in the hope that popular pressures in 


the West will oblige the UN to- conclude 
a settlement on terms more favorable to 
the Communists. , 


7. On the other hand, the possibility can- 
not be excluded that the Comunists are 
protracting the armistice negotiations 
merely to gain time to build up the Chi- 


_ Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


- Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


nese Communist air and ground forces’ 8. Finally, we believe that the Commu- 

preparatory to launching an all-out offen- _ nists will not agree to any political settle- 

sive against UN forces in Korea. Adeci- ment unless they are convinced that it 
sion to launch such an offensive might provides opportunities ultimately to sub- 
| be taken at any time during negotiations. vert the Republic of Korea. 


DISCUSSION 
I. DETERMINANTS OF COMMUNIST Ground Force Logistics 
INTENTIONS 5. The logistic capabilities of the Communists 
in Korea have been limited by the UN interdic- 
Military Capabilities In Korea tion of supply lines and the lack of flexibility 


of their supply system. Supplies have had to 
be accumulated over a long period to support 
1. Enemy ground forces in Korea are estima- their offensives. Moreover, Communist in-— 
ted at 610,000 personnel including 378,000 ability to provide adequate transport facilities 
Chinese and 232,000 North Koreans. In ad- . to support front line units has prevented the 
dition, there are 258,000 Chinese Communist Communists from maintaining the momen- 
troops in Manchuria plus three North Korean tum of their. offensives. Present stockpiles 
divisions... - are sufficient in volume to support an offensive 
, ‘ _ with forces now deployed for about thirty days. 
2. There is evidence that the North i<orean Although in past offensives the enemy could 
Army is now unable to replace its combat not move supplies from forward stockpiles to 
losses completely. One North Korean divi- ysing units rapidly enough to maintain the 
Sion was deactivated in July 1951 and a momentum of an offensive for more than five 


Korean corps was recently relieved by a CC to seven days, the Communists may now be 
division — the first relief of this type since — oyercoming this difficulty. 


the hostilities began. On the other hand, the 
Chinese Communists have been able to re- 
place their heavy losses. 


Ground Forces Strength 


6. Although the Communists have brought in 
increasing amounts of transport equipment 
and have made a tremendous effort to repair 
3. Despite hardships, heavy casualties,andthe and maintain lines of communication, UN air 
growing proportion of only partially trained attacks have exacted a heavy toll on rail facili- 
recruits, the effectiveness of Communist and _ ties, trucks, and bridges, and have greatly re- 
North Korean troops has not been serious- duced operational efficiency of the Communist 
ly affected by a decline in morale. Communist supply lines. Truck losses apparently have 
troops have surrendered in numbers only been replaced by deliveries from the USSR. 
when unit control has broken down and resis- 7. The food situation in North Korea is serious 
_ tance was hopeless. The high proportion of ex- and the Communist forces in Korea must de- 
Kuomintang troops among the Chinese Com- _ pend to a large extent upon Manchurian food 
munist forces does not appear to be a signifi- supplies. The Manchurian harvest is believed 
cant factor affecting Communist reliability or to have been normal and to have provided an 
morale. . . ample grain surplus to meet military require- 


4. The 7,500 battle-hardened guerrillas esti- ments. 

mated presently to be in South Korea con- Air Force Strength 

stitute a threat to public security and ROK re- . 8. The Chinese Communist-North Korean Air 
habilitation in that area. The ROK has re- Forces are estimated to have available approx- 
cently withdrawn two divisions from the bat- imately 1,450 combat aircraft of which at least 
tle lines for commitment to anti-guerrrilla 800 are jet fighters. Of this total 1,075 aircraft 
activities. (including 535 jet fighters) are estimated to 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


— 


be in Manchuria and the remainder are be- 
lieved to be based in China proper,primarily 
around Peiping, Shanghai, and Canton. Dur- 
ing recent months Communist air strength in 
the China-Manchuria-North Korean area has 
increased rapidly, with the greatest increase 
being in MIG-15 jet fighters. 


9. The combat potential and effectiveness of 
the CCAF-NKAF have improved rapidly dur- 
ing the past six months and must now be con- 
sidered formidable. By USAF standards the 
Communists are believed to be reaching a 
fairly high state of training. There have been 
numerous reports of intensive ground attack, 
navigational and paratrooper training. Actu- 
al UN experience has demonstrated that the 
Communists are capable of successful day and 
limited night interception, radar directed high 
altitude antiaircraft gunnery, and large for- 
mation tactics with jet fighters. The MIG-15 
has been highly effective in the role of fighter 
versus bomber, the purpose for which it was 
designed. The performance pattern of the 
MIG-15 jet fighter units has been spotty, how- 
ever, particularly in operations against UN 
fighters. 


10. The full extent of Soviet Air Force partici- — 


pation is not known, but the use of Soviet 
technical advisors and the organizational pat- 
tern strongly indicate a dominating Soviet in- 
fluence throughout the CCAF. It is probable 
that Soviet Air Force personnel are operating 
aircraft accredited to the CCAF. 


Air Force Logistics 


11. The Chinese Communist and North 
Korean Air Forces are wholly dependent upon 
the USSR for aircraft spare parts and asso- 
ciated equipment and largely dependent upon 
Soviet sources for POL. It is within the Soviet 
capability to augment greatly the Chinese 
Communist air strength at any time. These 
aircraft could come from the Soviet Far East- 
ern Air Forces, from Europe, or from Soviet 


production which is estimated to include 500 


MIG-15’s per month. Within a relatively short 
period of time a large part of the estimated 
T/O and E strength of 5,500 aircraft in the 
Soviet Far East Air Force could be made avail- 
able for operation in the Korean air war. 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


12. The intensive airfield repair and facili- 
ties build-up which has been accomplished 
throughout China and Manchuria during the 
past year has produced a system of airfields 
which would enable the CCAF-NKAF to em- 
ploy all types of aircraft, including jet fighters 
in sustained operations and TU-4’s in limited 
operations. The newly developed air facilities 
in Manchuria provide excellent air defense 
of Manchuria and support to the Communist 
forces fighting in Korea. In addition, they 
could be utilized as medium bomber bases for 
attacks against important United States bases 
in South Korea, Japan, and Okinawa. Maxi- 
mum efforts to recondition and expand air- 
fields in North Korea have continued. Three 
new airfields in northwest Korea may be ready 
for jet fighter operations by mid-December. 


Ni aval Forces 


13. The naval forces of the Chinese Commu- 
nists and North Koreans are insignificant. 
The combat effectiveness of these forces is 
considered to be very low and their potential, 
barring the possible use of Soviet submarines, 
would continue to be distinctly limited for the 
period of this estimate. Mines laid by impro- 
vised mine layers present a continuing threat 
to UN Naval forces. 


The USSR as a, Source of Supply 


14, The USSR must provide Communist forces 
in Korea with a large share of the replace- 
ments of munitions and other equipment for 
military use, including weapons, ammunition, 
tanks, trucks, artillery, petroleum, and air- 
craft, as well as trained personnel for instruc- 
tion (tanks and artillery) and operation (anti- 
aircraft guns and aircraft). Munitions and 
equipment can probably be supplied from 
Soviet stocks or current production without 
creating a strain on the USSR. Since a sub- 
stantial part of these supplies must be sent 
to the Far East from western and central 
USSR, however, the Korean war has undoubt- 
edly placed a heavy burden on the Trans-Si- 
berian Railroad. 


15. The practical capacity of the Trans-Si- 
berian Railroad is believed to be fully em- 
ployed at the present time. It is unlikely that 
a significant increase in the flow of supplies to 


3 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


i 


| Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


Korea could occur over the Trans-Siberian 
without cutting seriously into important So- 
viet military and civilian traffic. 


- 16. There is some evidence that ee 


points on the Siberian-Manchurian border are 
now handling cargo at close to capacity. Non- 
military railroad traffic has, moreover, been 
embargoed from time to time in Manchuria, 
which indicates that a significant increase in 
transit traffic to Korea might cause serious 
difficulties for the Manchurian economy. 


Over-all Current Military Capabilities 
17. The enemy can attack at any time with 


forces, presently in contact. These forces are. 


composed of 29 infantry, 1 armored, and 4 
artillery divisions with a personnel strength 
of 219,000, an estimated 80-120 tanks and ap- 
proximately 500 artillery pieces. Also avail- 
able in Korea are 43 infantry divisions, 2 ar- 
mored divisions, 1 mechanized division, and 1 
antitank division (391,000 personnel and 240- 
280 tanks). These forces could be committed 
within 2 to 10 days, but such a commitment 
would materially reduce Communist coastal 
defenses in Korea. In addition to his of- 
fensive capabilities, the enemy can defend in 
place with forces presently available and can 
conduct limited guerrilla operations behind 
UN lines. 


18. Although the CCAF has been scaployed 
in a predominantly protective role thus far, it 
nevertheless poses an increasing threat to the 
safety of the United Nations forces deployed 
in the Korean theater. The CCAF has in- 
creased over-all Communist defensive and of- 
fensive capabilities, and has gained air su- 
periority as far south as Sinanju on the 
Chongchon River to the extent of making 
UN daylight medium bombing efforts in the 
area exceedingly costly and diverting UN air 
elements from interdiction missions. The 
CCAF could launch an intense air attack 
which might inflict serious damage upon 
United Nations ground forces, naval and air 
installations, and lines of communication in 
Korea. 


19. There are sufficient numbers of MIG-15 
aircraft located in southern Manchuria to 
provide a strong fighter defense for this area. 


é 


The fighter defense capabilities of China 
proper are considerably less and, should sev- 
eral areas of China be attacked simultaneous- 
ly, the presently available forces would be 


Spread too thinly for effective defense. 


Trends in Military Capabilities 


20. Through mid-1952 the Chinese Commu- 
nists can maintain their present troop 
strength and combat potential in Korea. As- 
suming that the present ratio of UN Commu- 
nist air effectiveness remains unchanged, the 
Chinese Communists could deploy and logis- 
tically support in Korea 9 to 12 additional 
divisions, including the equivalent of three 
armored divisions. It should be noted, how- 
ever, that if the Communists decided to make 
a maximum. effort in Korea, reduced the 
effectiveness of the UN interdiction, and sac- 


rificed commitments elsewhere they might be 


able to increase troop strength in Korea to 
approximately 1,500,000 men. On the other 
hand, an increase in the effectiveness of the 
UN interdiction effort would make difficult 
even a moderate increase in Communist troop 
strength. It is unlikely that within the next 
few months the effectiveness of Communist 
units now in Korea could be substantially 
raised by the receipt of increased amounts of 
heavy equipment alone. Although the USSR 
has the capability to make available substan- 
tial quantities of heavy equipment to Com- 
munist troops in Korea, these troops would 
require considerable further training to use 
such equipment effectively. 


21. The aircraft strength presently available 


to the Communist forces operating in Korea 


could be increased by mid-1952 to a level de- 
pendent only on Soviet intentions and capa- 
bilities. The continuing extensive build-up — 
of aircraft, ostensibly operating as units of 
the CCAF, has been to meet the specific re- 
quirements of the Korean operation. The over- 


' all air defense capabilities of China will prob- 


ably continue to increase. 


22. In the event of an armistice, Communist 
ability to increase their military potential in 
North Korea would depend to some extent on 
the nature of the inspection provisions. Even 
should the armistice provide for inspection 
measures effectively preventing the augmen- 


SHORE” 4 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


tation of forces in Korea, however, Commu- 
nist capabilities could be increased consider- 
ably by the repair and construction of roads, 
. railroads, and other facilities under the guise 
of rehabilitation. 


Military Capabilities In the Far East 


Elsewhere Than In Korea 


23. The Chinese Communists have the capa- 
bility of undertaking military operations else- 
where in the Far East in addition to the pres- 
ent large-scale operations in Korea. They 
could initiate large-scale operations as an al- 
ternative to the present military operations 
in Korea. 


a. Taiwan. The Communists have been 
building up their air and coastal defense capa- 
bilities on the mainland opposite Taiwan. 
Thus far, the heavy Communist military 
commitment in Korea and the assignment of 
the US Seventh Fleet to patrol the Taiwan 
Straits probably have forced the Chinese Com- 
munists to postpone any attempt to invade th 
island. — 


b. Hong.Kong. Regardless of the outcome 
of the cease-fire: negotiations, the Chinese 
Communists will continue to have the capa- 
bility. of launching a successful attack on 
Hong Kong with few preparations and with 
little advance warning. 


c. Southeast Asia. In Indochina, the Chi- 
nese Communists probably could support ap- 
proximately 100,000 men for a series of lim- 
ited offensives of short duration. Logistic 
preparations in South China are sufficiently 
advanced to support limited Chinese Commu- 
nist air operations against Indochina. The 
Chinese Communists probably could make 
available approximately 50,000 men for sus- 
tained operations in Burma. However, so 
long as they are committed in Korea, the Chi- 
nese Communists probably would not be able 
to support logistically large-scale ground op- 
erations in Burma and Indochina concur- 
rently. 


d. Japan. The Chinese Communists do not 
have the capability to attack Japan without 
large-scale Soviet support. 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A4001700010001-3 


The Internal Situation in Communist China 


24. The mobilization of Communist China’s 


limited economic resources for the prosecution — 


of the Korean war has undoubtedly increased 
internal economic and political pressures and 
required Peiping to modify its economic and 
political programs. There is evidence that, at 
least in part as a consequence of hostilities in 
Korea, inflationary pressures have increased, 
production of certain consumer goods has 
lagged, production objectives have been re- 
duced, purges of ‘“counter-revolutionaries” 
have been intensified, and popular support of 
the regime has decreased. In addition, some 
reports hint at policy disagreements within 
the Chinese Communist Party stemming from 
the Korean war. 


' 25. On the other hand, the Chinese Commu- 


nists thus far have apparently been able to 
support their military operations in Korea 
without suffering such serious consequences 
in China as a breakdown of rail transporta- 
tion, an increase in anti-Communist guerrilla 
activity, outbreaks of large-scale civil dis- 
orders, or a shortage of manpower on the 
Korean front. It is believed that the Commu- 
nists can continue the war through the com- 
ing winter without incurring any of these con- 
sequences. 


26. Communist China is not likely to face seri- 
ous problems supplying its forces in Korea 
during the next several months. To an in- 
creasing extent the USSR is providing Chi- 
nese as well as North Korean forces in Korea 
with heavy munitions and equipment, while 
Communist China continues to furnish most 
of the small arms, ammunition, food and 
clothing to its own troops. There is no evi- 
dence that the drain on the Chinese transpor- 
tation system resulting from the transfer of 
trucks and rolling stock to Manchuria and 
Korea has as yet had a serious effect on the 
Chinese economy. However, continued in- 
creases in military transport requirements 
will necessitate further reductions in com- 
mercial freight movements in China and will 
place further pressure on the already-strain- 
ed railroad maintenance facilities. 


27. Athough Communist China has enor- 
mous manpower resources, the inflexible labor 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


requirements of Chinese agriculture limit the 
mobility of the Chinese labor force. Thus lo- 
cal labor shortages do exist and will probably 
be intensified by Peiping’s conscription of 
manpower for military and para-military. pur- 
poses. Furthermore, Communist China is 
faced with an urgent need for technicians for 


‘both the army and the expanding bureauc- 


racy. This shortage of trained personnel has 
serious implications for: the So DUSETAMING 
capabilities of the regime. 


28. The marked increase in the rate of public 
expenditure since the start of the Korean war 
has forced a drastic increase in taxes and a 
marked intensification of tax collection, es- 
pecially in rural areas. A continuation of the 
Korean war with an inevitable additional in- 
crease in taxes will further diminish the rural 
support which was gained by Peiping during 
the initial period of land redistribution. In- 
flationary pressures have been built up as a 
result of the budgetary deficit and the con- 


tinued diversion of production to military - 


uses. Consequent price increases, while in no 
sense as sharp as those characterizing the Na- 
tionalist postwar economy, have been signif- 
icant, and prices will almost certainly con- 
tinue to rise as the Korean war goes on. 


29. The Korean war has undoubtedly obliged 


the Chinese Communists to rely increasingly 


on police and administrative controls rather 
than on popular support. Within the Com- 
munist party leadership itself, the Korean 
war may raise, if indeed it has not already 
done so, potentially divisive issues such as: 
(a) the protraction of the war at the con- 
tinued sacrifice of domestic objectives; (b) in- 
creased Soviet intervention in internal Chi- 
nese affairs as a concommitant of Soviet aid; 
and (c) further intensification of internal 
controls at the expense of popular support. 


The Internal Situation In North Korea 


30. The North Korean regime is faced with 
much more serious internal economic and 
political problems than is Communist China, 


and a continuation of hostilities will almost ° 


certainly intensify these difficulties. The re- 
gime continues to control the North Korean 


‘police and army; however, and decreasing 


4 


popular support poses no serious threat. The 
North Korean regime can be expected to con- 
tinue to support Soviet policy regardless of 
the consequences within Korea since it is 
dedicated to. the Kremlin’s international ob- 
jectives and is incapable of exercising a deci- 
Sive influence on major Communist policy de- 
cisions with respect to the war. However, the 
maintenance of a viable and stable Satellite 


- regime in North Korea may be an important 


objective of Soviet policy. 


31. The food situation in North Korea may be- 
come critical for the civilian population by 


. Spring. Consumer goods other than food are 


virtually nonexistent: Transportation and 
communication facilities are apparently 
maintained only along essential lines of 
supply. Industrial establishments have been 
in large part destroyed. Manpower shortages 


- have already interfered with rehabilitation 


and agricultural production. They may soon 
affect essential rear area services for the army 
and further cripple the civilian economy. 


32. These difficulties, together with the so-. 
cial and psychological effects. of prolonged 
devastation and inconclusive war, have ac- 
centuated antagonisms between the people 
and the regime of North Korea. The tempo-— 
rary occupation of large areas of North Korea 
by UN forces, the presence of large numbers 
of unpopular Chinese troops and the frus- 
trated hopes of victory and unification have 
been additional factors forcing the regime to 
resort increasingly to harsh police controls. 


33. There have been reports of serious fric- 
tion between the leadership of Communist 
China and that of North Korea, including re- 
ports of friction with regard to the respective 
roles of the Chinese Communists and the 
North Koreans in the conduct of the war. 
There is no convincing evidence, however, that 
friction is sufficiently serious to threaten 
united Communist prosecution of the war or 
the conclusion of an armistice. 


Sino-Soviet Relations* 


34. While the Chinese Communists probably 
entered the Korean war in full accord with the 


*A comprehensive analysis of Sino~Soviet: rela- 
tions, NIE-58, is currently in preparation. 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


USSR, the heavy burden of the war and 
Peiping’s dependence on the USSR for vital 
war supplies have undoubtedly created prob- 
lems in the relations between the two govern- 
ments. There is no evidence, however, that 
these problems are sufficiently serious or are 
likely to become so serious as to create major 
divergences in the policies of the two powers. 
While the Korean war has increased the mili- 
tary prestige of Communist China, the war 
has almost certainly strengthened the hold 
of Moscow on Peiping. 


35. North Korea is important to the defense 
of Soviet and Chinese borders, and any seri- 
ous threat to its integrity may, in the Com- 
munist view, be a threat also to the USSR 
and Communist China. South Korea is of 
strategic value to the Communists principal- 
ly as an offensive base and, in anti-Commu- 
nist hands, represents a military and psycho- 
logical threat to the Communist position in 
North Korea. 


Il. CURRENT INDICATIONS OF COMMU- 
NIST COURSES OF ACTION 


36. Current intelligence provides no conclu- 
sive indications of probable Communist 


courses of action with regard to either Korea 
or other areas in the Far East. Recent Com- 
munist propaganda and their concessions in 
the armistice negotiations both can be inter- 
preted as indications of a Communist desire 
to obtain a cease-fire. Moreover, the pattern 
of Communist military activity in Manchuria 
and North Korea can be interpreted as an at- 
tempt to improve the Communist bargaining 
position in the armistice negotiations. On the 
other hand, the prolongation of these dis- 
cussions can be interpreted as an indication of 
Communist efforts to create dissension among 
participating UN governments and undermine 
their resolution to remain in Korea. Further- 
more, Communist efforts to develop air cap- 
abilities, maintain ground strength in Korea, 
and mobilize the total resources of China may 
‘indicate a Communist intent to resume large- 
scale offensive actions at a later date. 


Indications of Communist Intentions From 
Communist Military Activities 

37. Communist military activities in Korea, 
Manchuria, and China indicate that the Chi- 
nese are making preparations to continue 
military operations for an indefinite period of 
time. Current indications suggest that these 
operations in the immediate future will prob- 
ably be characterized on the ground by limit- 
ed objective attacks and determined resist- 
ance in depth to UN offensives and in the air 
by further efforts to extend Communist air 


“superiority over much of Communist-held 


North Korea. On the other hand, the 


-introduction of some armor and increasing 


amounts of artillery into North Korea, the 
continued efforts to achieve a logistic build- 
up, and the strenuous efforts to develop air 
capabilities could be interpreted as indications- 
of a Communist plan to mount a major of- 
fensive. 


38. The-Communist air build-up, though pri- 
marily a Soviet effort, does not provide con- 
clusive evidence as to future Soviet courses 
of action with respect to Korea. It could in- 
dicate any or all of the following: (a) a Soviet 
recognition that a major Communist air effort 
is necessary to bolster Chinese Communist 
morale and improve their military positions; 
(b) a Soviet intent to secure the defense of 
Manchuria in the event of an expansion of 
the war; (c) a Soviet attempt to improve the 
Communist bargaining position in the armis- 
tice negotiations; (d) a Soviet intent to chal- . 
lenge UN air superiority in Korea; and (e) a 
Soviet intent to build up Soviet air defenses 
throughout the Communist Far East and 
gain air combat experience. 


39. Other activity in China proper indicates 
a Communist determination to continue full- 
scale military mobilization. Furthermore, the 
indications are that the Chinese Communists 


_intend to continue supplying material and ad- 


visory assistance to the Viet Minh and the 
Burmese Communists. There are no positive 
indications of an early intent to send regular 
Chinese Communist troops into either area. 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


Indications From Communist Propaganda : 


40. Communist propaganda after the Chinese 
Communist intervention in Korea ‘stressed 
determination to drive the UN forces from 
Korea and insisted that any settlement must 
include Chinese Communist acquisition of 
Taiwan and the admission of Communist 
China to the UN. Shortly before the Malik 
statement, propaganda emphasis shifted. The 
“Drive-the-invaders-into-the-sea” theme was 
replaced by the claim that driving the ‘in- 
vaders” back to the 38th Parallel represented 
a great victory. Previous political demands 
were no longer mentioned in the context of 
the immediate problem of a Korean settle- 
ment. Although Communist propaganda can- 
not be interpreted as a firm indication of 
Communist intentions with respect to Korea, 
propaganda analysis suggests, on balance, 
that the Communists desire a suspension or 
even a termination of hostilities. It also sug- 


gests that the Communists are desirous of ob- 


taining a Korean political settlement based 
on the pre-invasion situation in Korea and in- 
cluding the withdrawal of UN troops. Further- 
more, Communist propaganda emphasis on 
“Asian unity” in the face of US “imperialist 
aggression” suggests that ultimate Commu- 
nist objectives in Asia—including the with- 
drawal of US protection from Taiwan and ad- 


mission of Communist China to the UN—have 


not changed. 


Indications of Communist Intentions From 
Their Conduct of Armistice Negotiations 


41. Communist actions during the armistice 
negotiations indicate a strong desire not to 
have the discussions terminated. The Com- 
munists have made a number of important 
concessions which, taken together, represent 
such a significant departure from their orig- 
inally announced position as to indicate de- 
sire to secure a cease-fire. The negotiations to 
date do not provide indication, however, of 
Communist willingness to conclude an armi- 
stice on terms satisfactory to the UN. 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01 012A001700010001-3 


wes 


indications of Communist Intentions From 
Communist Policies Elsewhere in the Far 
East 

42. In addition to the continued propaganda 
stress on the need for military preparedness, 
Peiping has placed increasing emphasis re- 
cently on domestic problems. Taken together 
with the ostensible Communist interest. in a 
Korean armistice, this could indicate a Chi- 
nese Communist intent to reduce its Korean 
commitment in the near future in order to 
concentrate for an indefinite time on do- 
mestic programs. Communist policies else- 
where in the Far East give no clear indication 
of Communist intentions with regard to Korea 
but indicate that toward other neighboring 
countries the Communists intend to follow 
their present policy based on “Asian unity” 
and ‘national liberation.” 


Ill. COMMUNIST INTENTIONS. 


43. The Communist forces are capable of 
continuing large-scale operations in Korea 
through mid-1952. We believe that during 
the period of this estimate it will not be possi- 
ble for Communist forces to drive the UN 
from Korea, unless major Soviet units are di- 
rectly committed. We do not believe the USSR 
will be willing to commit such units because of 
the inherent risks of precipitating general 
war. However, unless the present unrestricted 
Communist air build-up is checked or coun- 
tered, we believe the growing power of the 
Chinese Communist forces, even without di- 
rect commitment of Soviet units, will enable 
them to deal severe damage to the UN forces 
and may make it impossible for the UN to con- 
duct general offensive operations except at 
prohibitive cost. 


44. Unless the Soviets are prepared to provide 
the support necessary to achieve maximum 
Communist objectives in Korea, the Commu- 
nists have two alternative courses of action: 
(a) to accept an indefinite prolongation and 
possible expansion of the war, or (b) to set- 
tle the conflict on the best terms possible. 


45. Taking into account the various factors 
bearing on Communist policy in Korea, we 


believe that the Communists desire to stop 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


t 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3 


the fighting in Korea in order to: (a) avoid 


a possible expansion of the war which might 
oblige the USSR either to introduce Soviet 
military forces on a large-scale or to accept 
the extension of non-Communist control as 
far as the Soviet and Manchurian borders of 
Korea; (b) prevent the further development 
of strains on the Communist regimes of China 


and North Korea which might ultimately | 
‘threaten their stability; (c) permit Commu-. 


nist China to complete the modernization of 
its armed forces, to develop. more effective 


administrative and police controls, and to- 


. develop a stronger industrial and economic 
base; (d) restore North Korea as a “model 
satellite” with the potential for the subversion 
of the Republic of Korea; (e) permit increased 
efforts to extend Communist influence and 
control to southeast Asia and the Far East 
generally. We are unable to determine what 
relation a Communist desire for a suspension 
or termination of hostilities in Korea would 
have to Soviet global policies. 


46. We believe that the Communists desire a 
suspension or termination of hostilities in 
Korea, but that their present position is not 


such as to oblige them to accept terms which 
they may regard as seriously disadvantageous. 
We believe the Communists will protract the 
military. negotiations while there is a chance 
of obtaining concessions of actual or propa- 
ganda value. Thereafter, political negotiations 
will be prolonged in the confidence that while 
negotiations continue the UN will not renew — 
or widen hostilities, and in the hope that pop- 
ular pressures in the West will oblige the UN 
to conclude a settlement on terms more favor- _ 
able to the Communists. 


47. On the other hand, the possibility cannot 
be excluded that the Communists are pro- 
tracting the armistice negotiations merely to 
gain time to build up the Chinese Comunist 
air and ground forces preparatory to launch- 
ing an all-out offensive against UN forces in 
Korea. A decision to launch such an offen- 
sive might be taken at any time during ne- 
gotiations. 


48. Finally, we believe that the Communists 
will not agree to any political.settlement un- 
less they are convinced that it provides oppor- 
tunities ultimately to subvert the Republic o 
Korea. 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/11 8 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001 70001 0001-3 


Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 : CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001- 


3 
z 
4 


See 


. Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/09/18 - CIA-RDP79R01012A001700010001-3. 


