yoved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79&2404A000600010011-1 
ON : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, ONE 


SPECIAL ESTIMATE 


THE PROBABLE CONSEQUENCES OF CERTAIN 
POSSIBLE US COURSES OF ACTION WITH 
RESPECT TO COMMUNIST CHINA AND KOREA 


SE-20 


22 December 1951 posuyenr no, — | 


NO CHANGE IN CLASS. (J 

[CO «DECLASSIFIED 

CLASS, CHANGED TO: TS Sige) { 

NEXT REVIEW DATE: = 
AUTH: HA 10-2 


pATE (OF ES Si pevieweRs.018557 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000600010011-1 


Aaproved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000660010011-1 


WARNING 


THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE 
NATIONAL DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES, WITHIN THE 
MEANING OF TITLE 18, SECTIONS 793 ann 794 oF THE 
U. S, CODE, AS AMENDED.. ITS TRANSMISSION OR REV- 
ELATION OF ITS CONTENTS TO OR RECEIPT BY AN UN- 
AUTHORIZED PERSON IS PROHIBITED BY LAW. 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000600010011-1 


Approved For Release 2000/08/@ge peaes 01011A000600010011-1 


CONFIDENTIAL” 


SPECIAL ESTIMATE 


THE PROBABLE CONSEQUENCES OF CERTAIN 
POSSIBLE US COURSES OF ACTION WITH 
RESPECT TO COMMUNIST CHINA AND KOREA 


SE-20 
22 December 1951 


Final Copy 


The text of the basic estimte is identical with the advance 
copy distributed on 17 December. The accompanying TABS 
have been added since that distribution. 


The intelligence organizations of the Departments of State, 
the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force participated with the 
Central Intelligence Agency in the preparation of this 
estimate. All members of the Intelligence Advisory Com- 
mittee concurred in this estimate on 15 December 1951. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2000/08/2 


Er. 
79S01011A000600010011-1 


Approved For Release 2000/08 


i 
¥oct5501011A000600010011-1 


be 


THE PROBABLE CONSEQUENCES OF CERTAIN POSSIBLE US 
COURSES OF ACTION WITH RESPECT TO COMMUNIST 
CHINA AND KOREA 


THE PROBLEM 


To estimate (a) the effect on Communist China of certain possible US courses of ac- 
tion, and (b) the Communist reaction to these courses of action. 


ESTIMATE 


1. Expansion of the Korean War by Im- 
position of a UN Embargo on Shipping 
and Exports to Communist China 


a. A UN embargo on shipping and exports 
to Communist China, if effective, could reduce 
Communist Chinese seaborne imports sub- 
stantially. However, if exports were permit- 
ted to Port Arthur and Dairen, and if exports 
from Hong Kong and Macao were not embar- 
goed, the effect of the embargo would be 
largely nullified. In addition, to avoid large 
loopholes, the embargo would have to include 
(1) restrictions on exports to non-cooperating 
nations of goods which might be transshiped 
to Communist China; (2) the cancellation of 
charters and the prohibition of the sale of 
merchant ships to Soviet Bloe and other non- 
cooperating countries; and (3) movement reg- 
ulations such as refusal of clearance, black- 
listing, and other pressures applied on a 
world-wide basis. 


b, Although these controls, if effectively im- 
plemented, would be sufficient to intensify 
the existing serious economic strains in Com- 
munist China, their impact would be long 
term and would not, in themselves, force the 
Chinese Communists to end the Korean war 
or threaten the stability of the Chinese Com- 
munist regime. 


Approved For Release 2000/08) eA" 4A000600010011-1 


c. It must be expected that the Soviet Bloc 
states would not respect this embargo and 
that some other states would give only nomi- 
nal cooperation. The payment of premiums 
by Communist China would stimulate evasion 
of the embargo. While it is impossible to 
state with precision the importance of these 
loopholes, they would serve to diminish the 
desired effects of the embargo. 


d. The Communists could further partially 
overcome the effect of these measures by 
employing more of their ships in the China 
trade, even though such dislocation of Soviet 
Bloc shipping might impose serious problems 
for the Soviet Bloc. The USSR would also 
endeavor to expand overland shipments to 
Communist China. 


e. Therefore, a UN embargo on exports and 
shipping to Communist China is unlikely, by 
itself, to reduce Communist Chinese imports 
substantially. 


2. Expansion of the Korean War by Naval 
Blockade of Communist China 


a. Effective interdiction of Communist Chi- 
nese seaborne imports would require a naval 
blockade (including an embargo) of all Chi- 
nese Communist seaports, including Port Ar- 
thur and Dairen. It would be essential to 


atm ae 


Approved For Release soon 


prevent the use of Hong Kong and Macao 
as transshipment points for trade with Com- 
munist China. 

b. Such interdiction would intensify the 
existing serious economic strains in Commu- 
nist China, but would not in itself force the 
Chinese Communists to end the Korean war 
or threaten the stability of the Chinese Com- 
munist regime. 

c. The Chinese Communists would be un- 
able to counter such interdiction effectively, 
but would probably employ mine warfare 
against the blockading ships and might em- 
ploy aircraft and submarines. 

d. The USSR would endeavor to offset the 
economic effects of the embargo and blockade 
by expanding overland shipments to Commu- 
nist China. The USSR would refuse to recog- 
nize the legality of the blockade. It would 
probably undertake to escort Soviet shipping 
into Port Arthur and Dairen and might un- 
dertake to escort Soviet shipping into other 
blockaded ports. It might resort to the co- 
vert use of submarines and mines against 
blockading ships. Enforcement of the block- 


ade might well create incidents which would — 


heighten international tensions, but we be- 
lieve the Soviet reaction to such incidents 
alone would not result in the USSR initiating 
general war. 


3. Limited Expansion of UN Air Opera- 
tions in Order to Protect UN Forces in 
Korea from the Consequences of the 


Growing Communist Air Threat 

a. Sustained UN air attacks against Com- 
munist aircraft and air bases in Manchuria in 
the immediate vicinity of the Yalu River could 
seriously impair the Communist capability to 
extend their air superiority over larger areas 
in Korea and thus to threaten the position 
of UN forces in Korea by air attacks. 

b. The Chinese Communists would react by 
dispersing their aircraft and bringing to bear 
their maximum air defense capability. They 
would also attempt to increase their air ac- 
tion against UN forces, installations, and ships 
in the Korean area. 

c. The USSR probably would not openly in- 
voke the Sino-Soviet Treaty, but would prob- 


Approved For Release 2000/08/ 


ably react by committing additional Soviet 
forces to the air defense of Manchuria and 
North Korea despite the continuing risk of 
general war. 


A, Further Expansion and Intensification 
of UN Military Operations in the 


Korean War 

a. Sustained and unrestricted UN air at- 
tack on Communist military targets in Man- 
churia and North Korea, combined with large- 
scale UN ground operations in North Korea 
could seriously impair the Communist mili- 
tary capability to maintain their position in 
Korea. 

b. We believe that the Chinese Communists 
would react initially by attempting to in- 
crease air action against UN forces, installa- 
tions, and ships in the Korean area. ; 

c. The USSR would probably react imme- 
diately by giving support short of commit- 
ment of its own ground forces and short of 
overt commitment of Soviet air forces to com- 
bat over UN held territory, but including the 
commitment of additional elements of its own 
air forces to action in and over Manchuria 
and North Korea. 

d. If the Communists should find that these 
measures were proving insufficient to permit 
them to maintain themselves militarily in 
Korea, the USSR would probably intensify its 
aid. This aid might well include the intro- 
duction of “volunteer” forces. It might even 
include the employment of Soviet forces to 
such an extent that a de facto local war be- 
tween the US/UN and the USSR would exist 
in the Far East. At every stage, however, the 
Kremlin would probably endeavor to keep 
open the possibility of ending the conflict by 
political negotiation if the global interests of 
the USSR would be served by disengagement. 


5. Expansion of the Korean War by Em- 
ployment of Nationalist Military Forces 


The Chinese Nationalist Forces could not 
be effectively used for offensive action against 
the Chinese Communist mainland unless the 
present US program for equipping and train- 
ing these forces were greatly expanded, and 
unless the US were willing to provide not only 


NEN 


(AL. 1A000600010011-1 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29,C1A; 


logistic support for an invasion but substan- 
tial air and naval support as well. Even so, 
Chinese Nationalist ground forces could 
hardly be ready for an invasion operation be- 
fore mid-1952, and Chinese Nationalist Forces 
as a whole are not likely to be ready in suffi- 
cient strength for a large-scale invasion op- 
eration before 1953. Certain small units of 
the Chinese Nationalist Army are already 
capable of effective employment in small-scale 
hit-and-run landing operations. After a lesser 
amount of preparation the Chinese National- 
ist Army could be employed effectively in 
, Korea. Certain selected divisions could be 
made effective in a relatively short time for 
rotational service on the Korean peninsula. 


6. Expansion of the Korean War by | 


Utilization of Non-Communist Guerrilla 
Forces Already in China 


The Chinese Communists have succeeded 
in greatly reducing the strength of guerrilla 
forces throughout China and these forces do 
not now have a significant operational ca- 
pability. Even if guerrilla capabilities were 
developed, the guerrillas could be employed ef- 
fectively only in conjunction with other 
courses of action directed against Communist 
China. 


7. Expansion of the Korean War by a 
Combination of Several Courses of Ac- 


tion Considered Above 
a. An intensification of UN operations in 
Korea and an expansion of the war to include 
bombardment of Manchuria and an interdic- 
tion of Communist China’s seaborne imports, 
if successful, would probably have the follow- 


ing effects on Communist capabilities: (1) 


the Chinese Communists would be unable to 
continue large-scale operations in Korea; (2) 
lines of communication in Manchuria would 


Approved For Release 2000/08/20: CIA-F 


1011A000600010011-1 


be disrupted; (3) Communist China would be 
forced into an increased dependence on the 
USSR for military supplies and other critical 
imports; (4) Chinese Communist capabilities 
for military operations in Southeast Asia 
would be reduced substantially; and finally 


(5) an increase of Soviet commitments in the 


Far East would reduce Soviet capabilities 
elsewhere. 


b. The USSR would almost certainly ex- 
pand its aid to Communist China in response 
to these US courses of action. This aid would 
probably include increasing commitment of 
Soviet air defense elements in Communist 
China and North Korea. If the Communists 
found that such measures were proving un- 
successful in countering the US effort, the 
USSR would probably intensify its aid. This 
aid might well include the introduction of 
“volunteer” forces. It might even include the 
employment of Soviet forces to such an extent 
that a de facto war between the US/UN and 
the USSR would exist in the Far East. At 
every stage, however, the Kremlin would 
probably endeavor to keep open the possibility 
of ending the conflict by political negotiation 
if the global interests of the USSR would be 
served by disengagement. 


c. It is recognized that precise information 
on enemy intentions is rarely available and 
that enemy counteraction under the various 
circumstances here considered cannot be pre- 
dicted with complete accuracy. However, all 
aspects of the Soviet problem considered, we 
believe it unlikely that the USSR will delib- 
erately choose to precipitate global war be- 
cause of the implementation of the courses 
of action examined in this estimate. None- 


theless, the possibility of war by miscalcula- 
tion cannot be discounted during a period of 
high international tension such as would re- 
sult. 


§1011A000600010011-1 


CONFIDENTIA 


Dial Ree 0 101 1A000600010011-1 


CONFIDENTIAL 


TAB A 


COMMUNIST CHINA’S SEABORNE TRADE 


1. During the last half of 1950 Communist 
China’s seaborne imports reached record 
levels. These imports consisted primarily of 
raw cotton, chemicals, crude rubber, petro- 
leum products, steel and steel products, metal 
manufactures, and pharmaceuticals. At least 
three-fourths of these imports passed through 
Hong Kong and practically all were carried in 
non-Communist registered shipping. Seaborne 
imports into Communist China reached even 
higher levels during the first half of 1951 and 
the composition of these imports did not 
change significantly. 


2. During the latter half of 1951 there has 
been a decline both in seaborne imports into 
Communist China and in the tonnage of non- 
Communist registered shipping engaged in 
trade with Communist China. There are sev- 


Approved For Release 2000/084 


wk ie rT 
DP79S01011A000600010011-1 


eral possible reasons for the decline in the sea- 
borne trade of Communist China. Among 
these are: Western export controls, increased 
imports from the Soviet Bloc, institution of 
a system of selective buying by the Chinese 
Communists and a shortage of foreign ex- 
change resulting from heavy imports in 1950 
and the first half of 1951. Information now 
available does not permit even an approximate 
estimate of the relative importance of these 
factors. 


3. A part of the decline in the tonnage of non- 
Communist registered shipping involved in 
trade with Communist China has been offset 
by the diversion of Communist Bloc shipping 
to carrying Communist China’s foreign ~~ade. 
States of the Soviet Bloc are buying or char- 
tering additional ships for use in this trade. 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release soos SOND 


i 
, hoi 1A000600010011-1 


TAB B 


COMMUNIST AIR DEFENSE CAPABILITIES IN MANCHURIA 


1. Present Chinese Communist air defense 
capabilities are due directly to Soviet assist- 
ance in terms of equipment, operational pro- 
cedures, training, and, in many cases, the act- 
ive participation of Soviet personnel. In as- 
sessing such capabilities, the following factors 
are pertinent: 


a. Fighter Aircraft. Approximately 525 first-. 


line jet fighters of the MIG-15 type are located 
in the Mukden-Antung area of southern Man- 
churia. Approximately 225 additional first- 
line jet fighters, which are now located in the 
Peiping-Tientsin, Tsingtao, Shanghai, and 
Canton areas, could be deployed for opera- 
tions in the Mukden-Antung area. 


vb, Early Warning. A radar defense system 
has been installed and set in operation, with 
the assistance of Soviet radar engineers, tech- 
nicians, and advisers, which is believed to give 
practically continuous early-warning coverage 
from the Manchurian border south to Canton. 
A visual system supplements the electronic 
early-warning system. 


ce. Antiaircraft Artillery. Manchurian air 
defenses include a substantial number of anti- 
aircraft artillery pieces as well as large num- 
bers of automatic weapons. The majority of 
these are Soviet manufactured 85 mm., 37 
mm., and 12,7 mm. pieces. Reports continue 


to indicate that the total AAA strength is 


being increased by shipments of Soviet equip- 
ment. Heaviest concentrations are located 
in the Mukden area, Shanghai, and in the vic- 
iInity of Canton. AAA defenses appear to be 
employed for the protection of the industrial 
area, harbor facilities, airfields, and major 
junctions in the communications and supply 
systems. Reports indicate that the AAA de- 
fenses include gun-laying radar. 

ad, Aircraft Control. The Communist air 
defense system in Manchuria has the capabil- 
ity for limited ground-controlled interception. 


2. Communist air defense capabilities in Man- 
churia are estimated to be as follows: 


a. In the Dairen-Mukden-Antung-Harbin 
area of southern and eastern Manchuria, the 
Chinese Communists possess a major air de- 
fense capability against daylight bombing 
missions. At night their air defense capabil- 
ities would be considerably less. 

b. Communist air defense capabilities in 
southern and eastern Manchuria are such 
that considerable losses of US aircraft could 
be expected, at least initially, during a cam- 
paign of systematic air attacks. Under con- 
ditions of prolonged air attack, the ability of 
the Chinese Communists to maintain effec- 
tiveness would be in direct proportion to the 
amount of support which the USSR would 
render. 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29. 


EDEN 


AL 


pone 01011A000600010011-1 


TAB C 


CHINESE NATIONALIST ARMED FORCES 


1. The Chinese Nationalist Army has a 
strength of 455,000 personnel organized into 38 
infantry divisions, 4 armored groups, 1 para- 
troop group, 3 fort commands, 5 independ- 
ent regiments, and 2 independent battalions. 
The bulk of these forces is disposed on For- 
mosa; some combat elements are located on 
Matsu, Quemoy, and the Pescadores Islands. 
The Nationalist Army has no significant num- 
ber of trained reserves, and under present cir- 
cumstances its mobilization capacity is neg- 
ligible. The mass induction of Formosan 
youths would not be feasible unless the US 
greatly expanded its proposed MDAP. Even 
in this event, the dependability and effective- 
ness of Formosan troops would be question- 
able. At the present time, the Nationalist 
Army is short of some types of ammunition, 
arms, and other equipment, and the materiel 
that is available is heterogeneous and poorly 
maintained. Because of these materiel defi- 
ciencies, the lack of reserve manpower, and 
the poor command structure (including the 
lack of interservice coordination), the combat 
effectiveness of the Nationalist Army is poor. 


2. The Chinese Nationalist Air Force consists 
of 8 combat groups possessing 384 tactical 
aircraft. Of this total, however, only 121 air- 
craft are serviceable for combat. These con- 
sist of 35 light bombers and 86 piston fighters 
predominantly of World War II design. Be- 
cause of the lack of spare parts and improper 
maintenance facilities, the combat effective- 
ness of this force is very poor. Under condi- 
tions of sustained combat, particularly if 
opposed by jet aircraft, its capabilities would 
be reduced to a negligable factor in a day or 
two. In spite of these difficulties, the Chinese 
Nationalist Air Force is believed to have the 
organizational structure and necessary per- 
sonnel to absorb and utilize the additional 


Approved For Release 2000/08/ Da or 011A00060 : 
PONHBeN TES 0010011-1 


equipment, including jet aircraft, necessary to 
make it an effective force. 


3. The Chinese Nationalist Navy consists of 
approximately 150 miscellaneous craft, the 
largest of which are 7 destroyer-type vessels. 
Under optimum conditions and provided that 
there were no air or naval opposition, the Na- 
tionalists would be capable of transporting up 
to two divisions in assault by means of ortho- 
dox landing craft and following up with five 
or six divisions lifted by other shipping. While 
the Nationalist Navy could not, by itself, effec- 
tively blockade the Chinese mainland, it could 
give limited support to a blockade. 


4. The Chinese Nationalist Forces could not 
be effectively used for offensive action against 
the Chinese Communist mainland unless the 
present US program for equipping and train- 
ing these forces were greatly expanded, and 
unless the US were willing to provide not only 
logistic support for an invasion but sub- 
stantial air and naval support as well. Even 
so, Chinese Nationalist ground forces could 
hardly be ready for an invasion operation be- 
fore mid-1952, and Chinese Nationalist Forces 
as a whole are not likely to be ready in suffi- 
cient strength for a large-scale invasion opera- 
tion before 1953. However, certain small units 
of the Chinese Nationalist Army are already 
capable of effective employment in small-scale 
hit-and-run landing operations. 


5, In a relatively short time certain selected 
divisions of the Chinese Nationalist Army 
could be made effective for rotational service 
on the Korean peninsula. The Chinese Na- 
tionalist Army as a whole could be employed 
effectively in Korea after a lesser amount of 
preparation than would be required for a 
large-scale invasion operation of the Chinese 
mainland. 


Approved For Release 2000/08/2gng, 


4:011A000600010011-1 


TAB D 


ESTIMATE OF THE PRESENT STRENGTH AND CAPABILITIES OF ANTI- 
COMMUNIST GUERRILLAS IN CHINA 


Their Strength and Location 


1. The maximum total number of effective 
guerrillas throughout all China which can 
with any certainty be said to exist at the pres- 
ent time is approximately 1'75,000. Dormant 
or potential guerrillas exist in unknown num- 
bers, but the utility of this category is and 
probably will remain small pending all-out 
war or revolution in China. 


2. Active guerrilla forces are located for the 
most part in inaccessible areas—mountainous 
regions and on Nationalist-held offshore is- 
lands. Principal regions of activity continue to 
be the Pearl River and Canton area, the 
Kwangtung-Fukien border, the Kwangsi- 
Kweichow border, Szechwan, the Chekiang 
coast, southwestern Yunnan, and scattered 
areas in the Mongol and Moslem northwest. 


Their Physical Composition and Condition 


3. The term “guerrillas” is an elastic one since 
these resistance forces are heterogeneous in 
nature and vary greatly in composition from 
one unit to another. Generally speaking, 
guerrillas fall into the following categories: 
(a) ex-Nationalist forces, some of whom pro- 
fess allegiance, but most of whom owe no al- 
legiance, to Taiwan; (b) discontented land- 
lords and peasants; (c) bandits; (d) members 
of traditional secret societies, and (e) minority 
racial and religious groups. The most active 
and effective units are those in categories (a) 
and (e). 


4. Guerrilla forces suffer from a lack of cen- 
tral direction and coordination, from a relative 
lack of organization, quite often from lack of 
knowledge of proper guerrilla warfare tactics, 
from serious deficiencies in arms and ammuni- 
tion, and, perhaps most importantly, from an 
almost total lack of communication facilities. 


RT ee eee 


Approved For Release ae on 


Fi 


te 


In addition, guerrilla forces suffer from a lack 
of adequate food, clothing, and medical 
supplies , 


Their Motivation and Allegiance 


5. No single political program unites or in- 
Spires the guerrillas. Economic considerations 
generally outweigh political, and the basic mo- 
tivating force behind guerrilla activity at the 
present time is the struggle for existence and 
self-preservation. 


6. Despite Nationalist and independent 
claims, the Chinese guerrillas are likely for 
the most part to follow whatever leader and 
whatever political group can support and 
maintain them. 


7. Such organization and centralized direction 
as does exist is primarily that now being exer- 
cised by Taiwan. The Chinese Nationalist 
guerrilla effort, however, remains largely in- 
effectual because of the hindrances of internal 
Chinese Nationalist politics. 


8. Independent elements continue to claim a 
substantial guerrilla potential in Kwangsi and 
Kwangtung. It is believed that the claims of 
one of these elements to sizeable guerrilla 
assets in being are valid, but this group does 
not have the resources to maintain itself with- 
out outside support. 


Their Continuing Decline in Strength 
and Effectiveness 


9. Chinese Communist countermeasures 
against dissident elements have been most 
successful; and, with the further consolidation 
of control by Peiping and the forming by Pei- 
ping of an effective anti-guerrilla militia 
throughout China, guerrilla strength and ac- 
tivity under present circumstances will prob- 
ably continue to decline. 


9$01011A000600010011-1 


ENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29,..G] 


10. The perhaps surprisingly low figure of 


only 175,000 guerrillas should not be ascribed 


wholly to the successes of the Chinese Com- . 


munist anti-guerrilla program. This low 
figure also reflects more accurate US know- 
ledge concerning anti-Communist resistance 
in China than was available when earlier es- 
timates were prepared. 


Their Present Capabilities 


11. Anti-Communist guerrillas have at the 
present time the capability for: 

(a) Sporadic raids; 

(b) Occasional sabotage operations; 

(c) Raids, feints, and diversions against the 
mainland from the Nationalist-held offshore 
islands; 

(ad) Providing intelligence concerning Com- 
munist China; and, 


CONFIDENTIAL 


ay) 1011A000600010011-1 


(e) Providing a potential nucleus for a re- 
sistance movement in mainland China. 


12. The guerrillas at the present time do not 
have the capability to: 

(a) Delay or disrupt the movement from 
one front to another of the Chinese Commu- 
nist armies; 

(bo) Seriously interdict Chinese Communist 
lines of communications or logistic support; 

(c) Attract to their ranks substantial 
numbers of defectors from the Communists; 

(d) Significantly aid military operations 
should a Nationalist invasion be launched in 
the near future. 


13. Guerrilla capabilities are unlikely to in- 
crease without sizeable outside support and a 
revitalization of the Chinese Nationalists. 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000600010011-1 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Fi eee vate Si eae Ia 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000600010011-1 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000600010011-1 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000600010011-1 


UNCLASSIFIED 


DIRECTOR NATIONAL FOREIGN ASSESSMENT CENTER 


DOCUMENT ID NUMBER 
AGENCY 

ORIGINATING OFFICE 
DOCUMENT TITLE 


DOCUMENT DATE 

NUMBER OF PAGES 
ORIGINATING DIRECTORATE 
ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION 
TOP SECRET NUMBER 
RELEASE ACTION 

ACTION DATE 

ACTION OFFICER 

REQUEST NUMBER 


SE 51-20 

CIA 

NIO : 

THE PROBABLE CONSEQUENCES OF CERTAIN POSSIBLE US COURSES OF ACTION WITH RESPECT TO COMMUNIST CHINA AND K 
GREA 


511215 
g 

NFAC 

T 


DEC 
F7O507 
ooco00 
E77-0043 


UNCLASSIFIED 


Approved For Release 2000/08/29 : CIA-RDP79S01011A000600010011-1 


