Moscow, August 11, 1945.
[Received August 10—11:40 p.m.]

M 25260. Molotov asked the British Ambassador and me to call again. He handed us the following statement.

“The Soviet Government agrees to the draft reply of the Allied Powers proposed by the United States Government to the statement of the Japanese Government concerning surrender.

“The Soviet Government considers that the above mentioned reply should be presented in the name of the principal powers waging war with Japan.

“The Soviet Government also considers that, in case of an affirmative reply from the Japanese Government, the Allied Powers should reach an agreement on the candidacy or candidacies for representation of the Allied High Command to which the Japanese Emperor and the Japanese Government are to be subordinated.

“On the authority of the Government of the U.S.S.R. signed: V. Molotov.”

I took a firm exception to the last paragraph and said in my opinion that my Government would never agree to it. I pointed out this was a qualification of the Soviet Government’s acceptance of our proposal and that it gave the Soviet Government veto power on the selection of the Allied High Command. In answer to my inquiry as to his meaning he finally suggested that the High Command might consist of two persons, both an American and a Soviet General, specifying Marshal Vasilevsky [주52] by name. I stated that it was unthinkable that the Supreme Commander could be other than American.

After a most heated discussion he insisted that I send his communication to my Government. I maintained, however, that in my opinion it would be unacceptable.

When I reached my office, I found Pavlov, [주52a] Molotov’s secretary, on the telephone, advising me that Molotov had consulted Stalin. He said that there had been a misunderstanding and that only consultation had been intended and not the necessity of reaching an agreement. I pointed out to the secretary that I believed the words “or candidacies” would also be unacceptable and asked him to convey this message to Molotov. Within a few minutes he called back stating that Stalin had agreed to the deletion of these words. He agreed to confirm this in writing.

[631면]

The last paragraph will therefore read: “The Soviet Government also considers that, in case of an affirmative reply from the Japanese Government, the Allied Powers should consult on the candidacy for representation of the Allied High Command to which the Japanese Emperor and the Japanese Government are to be subordinated.”

I would appreciate advice as to whether the Soviet reply as now amended is acceptable.

[

Harriman

]

----- 각주 -----
[주52] Marshal Alexander Mikhailovich Vasilevsky, Commander in Chief of Soviet Forces in the Far East.
[주52a] Vladimir Nikolayevich Pavlov.
