August 12, 1945

Text of Telegram From Mr. Bevest to Mr. Balfour Dated 12th August

Following is draft act of surrender referred to in my immediately preceding telegram. Begins.

1.

We, the undersigned representing the Imperial Japanese Government and Japanese Imperial General Headquarters, and duly authorised by His Majesty the Emperor of Japan hereby surrender unconditionally to the (Allied High Command) all Japanese armed forces and forces under Japanese control on land, at sea and in the air wherever they are located.

2.

The Imperial Japanese Government and Japanese Imperial General Headquarters will at once issue Imperial Commands to all Japanese military, naval and air authorities and to all forces under their control to cease active operations at (time and date), to remain in the positions occupied at that time and to disarm completely, handing over their weapons and equipment to an Allied Commander duly authorised by an Allied Supreme Command. No ship, vessel, or aircraft is to be scuttled or any damage done to its hull, machinery or equipment nor to machines of any kind, armament, apparatus, means of production, buildings, stores of food or any other commodities or materials.

3.

The Imperial Japanese Government and Japanese Imperial General Headquarters will at once issue orders for the liberation of all Allied prisoners of war and all Allied civilians in Japanese custody, for their protection, care and maintenance and for handing them over safely at the earliest possible moment to an Allied Commander duly authorised by an Allied Supreme Command.

4.

The Imperial Japanese Government and Japanese Imperial General Headquarters will immediately comply with any orders or instructions for the carrying out of this act of surrender.

5.

The Imperial Japanese Government and Japanese Imperial General Headquarters undertake to fulfil without question any other terms of whatever kind which the Allies may decide to impose upon Japan.

6.

In the event of the Imperial Japanese Government or Japanese Imperial General Headquarters or any forces under their control failing to act in accordance with this act of surrender, the (Allied High Command) will take such punitive or other action as they deem appropriate.

7.

This act is drawn up in the English (Chinese, Russian, Japanese) languages. English is the only authentic text.

Ends.

[643면]