Stockholm, August 13, 1945—7 p.m. 
 [Received August 13—5:43 p.m.]

2764. Legation’s 2384, July 6, 6 p.m. [주85] Prince Carl Bernadotte [주86] who was vacationing in Southern Sweden was called Saturday Aug 11 at request of Major General Onodera, Jap Military Attaché, to come to Stockholm immediately in order to meet Onodera. Prince Carl arrived Sunday night Aug 12 and immediately contacted Onodera. Following conversation he attempted to contact officer of Legation but [655면] was followed for 3 hours and consequently contact with him was not made until today.

Onodera advised Prince Carl that he was still involved in peace negotiations since he represented Supreme Military Command directly under Emperor and he inferred, according to Prince Carl, conflict between Jap military and Foreign Office on this question. Onodera stated that no reply had yet been received and that he would receive reply simultaneously with Jap Minister to Sweden. Onodera stated that Japs could not accept any terms whereby position of Emperor would be jeopardized and that accordingly first condition of Allies with respect to Emperor being subject to Supreme Commander of Allied Powers would be objectionable. Prince Carl could not obtain information whether this statement was Onodera’s opinion or was based directly on information received from Japan since time transmission of message on behalf four Allied Govts. Onodera stated reply would come here today or August 14. He said he would immediately advise Prince Carl of reply for purposes of Prince Carl advising his father and presumably through him Swedish King.

Press report today to effect that Prince Carl and his father have been involved in negotiations is being denied by Prince Carl to head of Foreign Office Press Section in statement wherein Prince Carl advises that from reports in press, negotiations have been handled through diplomatic channels and obviously could therefore not concern him and further that Prince Carl was in Southern Sweden at time of Jap approach to Swiss and Swedish Govts.

Johnson

----- 각주 -----
[주85] Ante, p. 487.
[주86] Nephew of King Gustav V.
