Tokyo, September 27, 1945.
[Received September 29—1 p.m.]

3. Following memorandum submitted to SCAP as representing only initial impressions admittedly and necessarily based upon quick survey of conditions and opinions in Tokyo and immediate environs:

“(a) Although one senses a certain dazed feeling on the part of many of the populace, the general reaction among the people is one of great relief that the war is finished, of resignation to defeat and of anxiety in regard to the treatment to be given Japan.

(b) There is practically universal acceptance of the fact of defeat. This acceptance is not, however, accompanied by a universal sense of guilt or shame. Pride in Japanese race, mores, and culture remains widespread. (Properly handled, this factor may be valuable in implementing United States policies.)

“(c) Leadership appears to fall into two categories;

1st,

that of government and administrative officials who seem to limit their activities largely to general administration and execution of orders of the occupation forces; and

2nd,

that of certain individuals who are busily engaged in what is felt to be opportunistic scrambling to create a surface appearance of democratic activity in Japanese political life. It is too early to determine whether government officials and leaders of these highly vocal proponents of new democratic social and political practices can or will develop sound basic programs for the gradual evolution of a peaceful and reliable Japan.

“(d) As was to be expected, there has not yet emerged a clear pattern of leadership which could reasonably be relied upon to develop the changes which must take place in Japan during the next one or two generations. Similarly, with the military backbone of the government destroyed, there have not yet come forward the individual leaders who can give life to such leadership. Uncertainty in regard to Japan’s future seems to loom large in preventing the emergence of such leaders. Factors such as necessary recovery from shock and sudden elimination of long standing militaristic direction and domination [725면] of all National affairs, and the extreme difficulty of bare existence, make it unlikely that the vacuum in progressive and intelligent leadership will be filled for a considerable period of time. On the other hand, there is wide evidence of a spirit of determination to recover Japan’s position through diligence and cooperation with the occupying forces.

“(e) All observations reemphasize the fact that creation of a new Japanese economic and social structure must necessarily be a gradual process wisely initiated and carefully watched and fostered for many years. It cannot be accomplished suddenly. It would appear undesirable, in the initial stages of occupation, to attempt to accelerate, perhaps to the point of disintegration, the desired social and economic changes. Such measures as the immediate complete eradication of all responsible leaders who may formerly have been implicated in decisions of high policy which led to war or were concerned with war, might be highly disturbing at this particular juncture and should be proceeded with gradually and as local circumstances dictate.”

Atcheson