Tokyo, October 10, 1945.
[Received October 12—3:25 p.m.]

37. Japanese political activity is speeding up with the Cabinet change [주29] and the shock which was given by the 4 October order of the Supreme Commander concerning the abolition of thought control laws and the release of political prisoners. Compared with the previous Cabinet which failed because it was not able to understand what the Government was supposed to do under the Potsdam Declaration there are signs that the new Cabinet will by their own actions anticipate the desired changes.

How successful in this attempt the new Cabinet will be remains to be seen, as none of its members are close to the throne nor do they possess outstanding forcefulness or prestige. New political parties are being formed in a haphazard fashion with only three groups up till now showing any vitality. Hatoyama is leading the “Liberal” party, he being formerly the defunct Seiyukai’s executive director.

[741면]

Communist and Socialist parties. Just now are the Communist leaders being freed from prison. The orthodox or conservative leaders and the rightist elements are keeping quiet but they continue to exercise considerable influence, no doubt. Most of the population appears to be apathetic as far as politics are concerned, thinking mostly about the urgent problems of livelihood.

The new Cabinet shows more signs of conservatism (in 1939 the Home Minister [주30] was the President of the National Spiritual Mobilization League; and is the former Director of the Imperial Rule Assistance Association). The new Cabinet is mediocre and was designed apparently only temporarily in order to carry on the efforts to meet the requirements of the Allies and to clear the way for the new Government which will be chosen after a national election. Those who were thought likely to be considered as war criminals by the U.S. were avoided and those were chosen who had had international acquaintanceship and experience, probably more because of their acceptability to the U.S. than for any qualifications or individual abilities. The efforts of the present Cabinet may very well be more successful than the efforts of the preceding Cabinet but whether it can be considered as more than a stop gap is doubtful.

Atcheson

----- 각주 -----
[주29] Baron Kijuro Shidehara became Prime Minister on October 9, succeeding Prince Naruhiko Higashi-Kuni (August 17–October 5).
[주30] Zenjiro Horikri.
