November 25, 1943

Draft of Communiqué

President Roosevelt, Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, and Prime Minister Churchill, and their respective military leaders, have completed a conference somewhere in Africa. The several military missions have agreed upon future military operations directed against Japan from China and Southeast Asia. The plans, the details of which cannot be disclosed, provide for vigorous offensives against the Japanese. We are determined to bring unrelenting pressure against our brutal enemy by sea, land, and air. This pressure is already underway. The time, place, and scope of our joint offensives in this area cannot now be disclosed, but Japan will know of their power.

We are determined that the islands in the Pacific which have been occupied by the Japanese, many of them made powerful bases contrary to Japan’s specific and definite pledge not to so militarize them, will be taken from Japan forever, and the territory [주2] they have [주3] so treacherously stolen from the [주4] Chinese, such as Manchuria and Formosa, will of course be returned to the Republic of China. We are mindful of the treacherous enslavement of the people of Korea by Japan, and are determined that that country, at the earliest possible moment after the downfall of Japan, shall become a free and independent country.

We know full well that the defeat of Japan is going to require fierce and determined fighting. Our three countries are pledged to fight together until we have received the unconditional surrender of Japan.

The Generalissimo was accompanied by his wife, Madam Chiang Kai-shek, who took part with the Generalissimo in several of the conferences with our military leaders. [주5]

[402면]

The conference was attended on behalf of the United States by: Admiral William D. Leahy; General George C. Marshall; Admiral Ernest J. King; General H. H. Arnold; Lt. General B. B. Somervell; Major General Edwin M. Watson; Rear Admiral Wilson Brown; Rear Admiral Ross McIntire; Mr. Harry Hopkins; Ambassador W. Averell Harriman; Ambassador J. G. Winant; [주6] Mr. L. Douglas; Mr. J. J. McCloy.

British representatives were: General Sir Alan Brooke; Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal; Admiral Sir A. Cunningham; Lord Leathers; Lt. General Sir Hastings Ismay.

The Chinese mission included: [주7] General Shang Chen; Dr. Wang Chung-hui; Vice Admiral Yang Hsuan-chen [Hsuan-ch’eng]; and Lt. General Chow [Chou] Chih-jou.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] The draft as typed is the same as the draft submitted to Roosevelt (supra) except for the addition, on a separate sheet, of the last three paragraphs naming the conference participants. The handwritten amendments by Hopkins were made prior to the revised version of November 25, 1943 (infra).
[주2] In the margin, near this point and perhaps intended to be associated with the phrase “territory … stolen”, are the words “all conquered” and the words “violence & greed”. Both these groups of words are in Hopkins’ handwriting.
[주3] At this point Hopkins inserted the words: “occupied belonging to the Dutch”.
[주4] At this point were inserted the words “Dutch and the”, in a handwriting which has not been identified.
[주5] These words were apparently stricken out by Hopkins. Beneath this sentence appear the following words, in Hopkins’ handwriting: “We are determined that Japan shall give up all her conquests past & present in addition to mandates.”
[주6] At this point Hopkins added the name “Steinhardt”.
[주7] At this point the words “amongst others” were added in Hopkins’ handwriting.
