November 12, 1941

It will be recalled that the documents communicated by the Japanese Ambassador to the President of the United States on August 28, 1941 contained a statement of the position of the Japanese Government in regard to its desire and intention to pursue peaceful courses. That position was set forth in excerpts taken from those, documents as follows:

“… Japan is solicitous for the maintenance of the peace of the Pacific and the peace of the world and she desires therefore to improve Japanese-American relations …”

“… In consequence, the Japanese Government welcomes the invitation by the Government of the United States to an exchange of views in regard to basic policies and attitudes as the foundation of an understanding that will condition lasting and extensive peace in the Pacific area. For such peace, the Government of Japan is ready: for such a united effort toward a peaceful settlement covering the entire Pacific situation the Government of Japan, like the Government of the United States, would be proud to make sacrifices …”

With reference to the stationing of Japanese troops in Indochina, it was stated:

“… the Japanese Government has no intention of threatening thereby other countries.

[728면]

“Therefore, the Japanese Government is prepared to withdraw its troops from Indochina as soon as the China Incident is settled or a just peace is established in East Asia.

“Furthermore, in order to remove all possible doubt in this regard, the Japanese Government reaffirms herewith its repeated declaration that its present action in Indochina is not a preparatory step for military advance into neighboring territories.”

The statement was made specifically applicable to Thailand as follows:

“The Japanese Government believes the above pledge will suffice to clarify also Japan’s intentions toward Thailand.”

Specific reference was also made to the Soviet Union by the Japanese Government as follows:

“As regards Soviet-Japanese relations, the Japanese Government declares likewise that Japan will take no military action as long as the Soviet Union remains faithful to the Soviet–Japanese neutrality treaty and does not menace Japan or Manchukuo or take any action contrary to the spirit of the said treaty …”

There was also a comprehensive statement, as follows:

“In a word, the Japanese Government has no intention of using, without provocation, military force against any neighboring nation.”

With reference to the general program in view, it was stated:

“… such discussions would naturally envisage the working out of a progressive program, obtainable by peaceful methods. The Japanese Government shares fully that view with the Government of the United States.

“… Regarding the principles and directives set forth in detail by the American Government and envisaged in the informal conversations as constituting a program for the Pacific area, the Japanese Government wishes to state that it considers these principles and the practical application thereof, in the friendliest manner possible, are the prime requisites of a true peace and should be applied not only in the Pacific area but throughout the entire world. Such a program has long been desired and sought by Japan itself …”

In as much as subsequent to the giving by the Japanese Government of the foregoing statement of its position a new cabinet has come into office in Japan, this Government believes that it would be helpful, in order to avoid the possibility of any misunderstanding, if the Japanese Government could at this time confirm that the position of the Japanese Government has not changed.

This Government, in its statement to the Japanese Government of October 2, 1941, pointed out that, although we were gratified to receive the statement of the position of the Japanese Government, we found it difficult to understand the need for the qualification by [729면] the Japanese Government of its statements of peaceful intent with what would seem to be unnecessary qualifying phrases. We had in mind such phrases as:

“As long as the Soviet Union remains faithful to the Soviets-Japanese neutrality treaty and does not menace Japan or Manchukuo or take any action contrary to the spirit of the said treaty.”

“Without provocation.”

“Without any justifiable reason.”

On October 13 the Japanese Minister, in a conversation with the Under Secretary of State, said that such qualifications were the result of unfortunate phraseology and that the Japanese Government would be willing to omit them. As this conversation took place before the present Japanese Cabinet came into office, it is believed that it would be helpful if the position of the Japanese Government on this point could be clarified and the statement of the Japanese Minister be confirmed.

The foregoing observations are not directed to the new proposals put forward by the Japanese Ambassador on November 7 and November 10, but are set forth merely in an effort to make abundantly clear the basis on which we are proceeding in order that there may be avoided any misunderstanding on the part either of the Japanese Government or of this Government. It has not been and is not the purpose of this Government to enter needlessly into a discussion of details. While presenting these preliminary observations toward ensuring a common understanding, this Government will expect to do everything it can to expedite consideration of the latest proposals of the Japanese Government.