[Washington,] November 21, 1941.

Ambassador Kurusu called at my hotel apartment at his request. He had no business to take up with me except to refer to the Japanese interpretation of the Tripartite Pact and handed me a draft of a paper which he proposed to sign by way of attempted clarification. I looked at the paper and then asked Mr. Kurusu whether he had anything more on the whole subject of a peaceful settlement to offer. He replied that he did not. I said that I did not think this would be of any particular help and so dismissed it. This was virtually all that was said of importance.

C[ordell] H[ull]

[Annex]

Draft Letter Handed by Mr. Saburo Kurusu to the Secretary of State on November 21, 1941 [주61]

Washington, November 20, 1941.

Mr. Secretary: Through several conversation[s] I have had the honor of holding with Your Excellency, I was rather surprised to learn that a deep-seated misconception prevails among your people about the obligation which Japan assumed under the Tripartite Pact.

As Your Excellency is fully aware I am the one who signed the said treaty under the instructions of my Government; and I am very happy to make the following statement which I trust will serve to eradicate the aforesaid false impression:

It goes without saying that this treaty can not and does not infringe, in any way, upon the sovereign right of Japan as an independent state.

[757면]

Besides, as Article III of the Pact stands, Japan is in a position to interpret its obligation freely and independently and is not to be bound by the interpretation which the other high contracting parties may make of it. I should like to add that my Government is not obligated by the aforementioned treaty or any other international engagement to become a collaborator or cooperator in any aggression whatever by any third Power or Powers.

My Government would never project the people of Japan into war at the behest of any foreign Power; it will accept warfare only as the ultimate, inescapable necessity for the maintenance of its security and the preservation of national life against active injustice.

I hope that the above statement will assist you in removing entirely the popular suspicion which Your Excellency has repeatedly referred to. I have to add that, when a complete Understanding is reached between us, Your Excellency may feel perfectly free to publish the present communication.

I have [etc.]

----- 각주 -----
[주61] Filed separately under file No. 762.9411/323.
