[763면]
APPENDIX 
THE JAPANESE EMPEROR 
AND THE WAR 
By 
Yasumasa Matsudaira 
Grand Master of CeremonieI, 
Minrstry of Imperial Household 
Formerly Chief Secretary to 
Marquis Koichi Kido, Lord 
Keeper of the Pri.y Seal.

[764면]


[765면]
APPENDIX 
THE JAPANESE EMPEROR AND THE WAR 
The Emperor's Role at the Time 
of Surrender. 
Th e Pacific War broke out despite all efforts exerted 
by the Emperor to pr"eut the calamity. N"ertheless, His Majesty's del'otiotl to iJilematioJlal concord 
was such that from the ye,y moment hostilities began 
his mind was directed constantly toward the restora· 
lion of peace. I 
As early as February 1942, when our forces were 
about to capture Mani/a, the Emperor in,tructed 
Premier Tojo to lose no opportunity in bringing the 
war to an end. 
I beli"e it WdJ in FebrUdry 1944 that His Majesty 
began to grapple with the problem of peace as the most 
urgeut issue confronting the Empire. I recall one day 
after the war ended the Emperor, speakifll, to us, his 
entourage, reminisced: t( From the lime our [jUt 
along the Stanley MJuntain Range in New Guinea 
'Was penetrated, I was anxious for peace, but, we had 
a treaty with Germany against concluding a separate 
peace; and we could not ')IJ'oLate an international 
commitment. This was d dilemma that tormented me." 
In February 1945, after the fall of Manila, the 
Emperor summoned i7lJiyjduafly, and 011 different 
days, Baron Wakatsuki aud se'lleral other ex·Premiers 
and a/so COUtlt Makitlo, former Lord Keeper of the 
Pri,y Seal, and asked for their ,iews. Though they 
al! /a'llored peace, I uuderstaud none had au') concrete 
suggestion. 
It WdJ toward the "Id of May, 1945 whell th. 
Yamato, our tlewest a,ld biggest battleship dispatched 
to Sd'JIe Okinawa, was JUnk aud all hope was goue in 
,,,,,,a/ warfare that Gelleral Umezu, Chief of the Army 
General Staff, itlformed the Thro"e of the impossibility of land operatiom to recoup our re'llerses ttt the 
YU7l1kttl a"d Bur1114 fronts. His Majestl was then 
resolyed to seek pettce at all costs. 
In order to briflg hostilittes to tttl end, however, ,·t 
was necessary to purSUtlde the officers and men, who 
were determined to fight to death, to lay dowtl their 
arms. Here was tt most delicate task. One false 
step would briug domestic turmoil to the country 
threatened with an rmmi',fUI fUfmy iuvasion. The 
fall of Saipa", defeat Otl Leyte, a,ld the loss oj 
Oki"awa had co,witlced the military leaders, as well 
as ttl! the Cabiuet members, of the pressing, need for 
termi'14ti"g the war-still they were at loss as to how 
to go about it. Iu the face of the nation's volcanic 
temper at that time, no oue dared to yo ice his hemest 
opimotl or do a"ythi"g that might arouse the suspiciotl 
of his e1ltertaining such an opinion. At this juncture 
it was His Majesty who urged the Go>emmetlt to sue 
for peace. 
The Supreme War Direction Coutlcil meetitlg beI The Emperor, as the sovereign ruler of Japan, played an important role in the termination of the Pacific War. 
His influence in bringing hostilities to an end can be seen in the concluding chapters of this volume. It was felt however, 
that a more detailed report of the Emperor's feelings and actions would further aid in understanding his relation to the 
Pacific War. Therefore. this·unpublished manuscript of Marquis Yasumasa Matsudaira, one of the Emperor's trusted 
advisors, has been included as an appendix to this volume. Marquis Matsudaira, currently the Grand Master of Cere· 
monies, Ministry of Imperial Household, served as Chief Secretary to the Lord Privy Seal , Marquis Koichi Kido, from 
June 1936 to November 1945. These position s has provided him with many opportunities to learn and understand the 
Emperor's views regarding numerous events of great historical significance. Thi s manuscript was prepared in December 
1949 by the Marquis in response to a request from the G-2 Historical Section , GHQ FEC, aDd has been published just 
as it was translated from the Japanese. 
763

[766면]
fore the Emperor on June 8, 1945, passed on the 
" Basic Policy Draft for Future Direction of War" 
which declared the official decision of the Go>ernme1ll 
to continue the war. His Majesty was deeply shocked 
when this decision, in utter disregard of the deYelop· 
menu at the front and situation at home, was adopted 
by the Supreme Council presided over by Premier 
S,,<uki, who enjoyed Imperial confidence to the fullest 
degree. The Emperor wished to demand the Gov",,· 
men! as well as the military leaders to reconSlder. 
But extraordinary cautio11 was required for tbu. The 
Emperor was most reluctant to gi'Ye out his personal 
opinion in the form of a command, for that would 
contral'e1le the practice of our constitutional government and might produce gra')'e repercussions. Herein 
lay the difficulty. The draft of the B<lJic Policy 
Draft for Future Direction of War contained 411 ac· 
curate description of both the war situation and the 
domestic conditions of the country, of which the impossibility of continuing the war was an oln-jour C01lclusion. Yet the document, by an amazing twist of 
logic, ended in advocating the c01Jtinuation of war. 
At the June 8 conference the Emperor, though he made 
no comment, sensed the inconmtency at once . He 
desired to leaYe the matter to be threshed out at another meeting. Thus, with the consent of the Premier 
he called the Supreme War Direction Co.uncil meeting 
011 June 22, at which he proposed peace. 
Ie This is tl critical moment," said His Majesty, 
"permitting no hesitatioll, nor delay. Despite the 
Basic Policy Draft adopted at the Supreme War 
Direction Couueil meeting on June 8, 'lou will consider the questioll of ending the war as quickly as 
possible." To ad. ocate peace, as His Maiesty did 
in those days of frenzied chau)ir"nism, was an act which 
required an txtraordinary resolution in')lol"ing oJ graJ.'e 
risk tyffl on the august person of an Emperor. 
What impressed those of us who were close to the 
Emperor was the steadfast alld determined way His 
Majesty followed his OWII convictioll. Thallks to the 
Imperial admonition, the GO'JIernment was 1I0W mOlling 
toward the termination of hOIh"lih"es. But as to the 
time and method alld also the terms of peace, there 
was a wide di>ergence of .iews betweell the Cabinet and 
the military. The Premier and Navy Minister Yonal 
and Foreigll MinISter Togo were conspICuously acliYe 
764 
in working for peace, but the role of the Emperor, 
who openly alad ({rvertiy ga>e cOllstant encouragement 
alld support to these men, should not be forgotten. 
The government wa.ered until the very last minute. 
It was at the Imperial conferellce of the Supreme 
War Directioll COUllCil of August 14 that the Emperor 
himself prououllced his decision in fa')lOT of immediate 
acceptance of the Potsdam Declaratioll. Thus, did 
our nation emerge from eight loug years of warfare 
to hail the dawn of peace. At both conferellC", Augusl 
9 and 14, His Majesty, sumnuzrizing in a lucid fashion 
the gellerai situation relating to the war d",elopmeuts 
0" land and sea, the extent of air raid damage, the 
defense of the home islauds, the munition production, 
and food supply, expounded why Japan ,hould stop 
fighting and surr<tader. He was mort deeply concerned 
not only o)'er the sufferings of his subjects, which were 
being ;'lIensified each day, but also o>er the .norma US 
waste in li"es and property our fUh·le resistance Wdl 
causmg our ad"ersaries. These sentiment! a:e partly 
re>ealed in the Imperial Rescript issued on the terminatioll of war. I know well how hea.ily these matters 
weighed upon the mi,ad o/the Emperor throughout 
the war years. 
Emperor's Efforts for Preser'l'oljon of Peace. 
The Pacific War was terminated by the decision of 
the Emperor. Why then had it not also been possible 
ro pre'Velli war by Imperial judgement? 
This question II asked frequ.ntly abroad a,ad e .. n 
among our own people at home. The question arises 
out of ignorance of His Majesty's ceaseless endea"ors 
toward peace and also from misunderstanding the 
position of the Emperor in the Japanese government. 
The first part (1926-36) of the Showa Era witnessed 
great changes in Japanese thought and economy. The 
economic depressioll that followed the First World 
War oppressed hea.ily the li.es of our people and 
engendered extremisl mo>ements both to the right and 
to the left. It was an era of politIcal instability when 
the military clique raised its head and our foreign 
policy took on a markedly aggressi>e character. 
His Mairs/y is a mall of conviction who beli",,, 
firmly in peace and it is 110 exaggeration to sa! that

[767면]
all his efforts throughout the 20 years of his reign were 
dellotta to the preser"atiotl of peace. In order to 
bring out this fact collcrttely it is necessdry to explain 
the following points : 
(1) The military-especially the Army--was extremely high·handed aud intractable, aud 
ignored the wishes of the Emperor. 
(2) The Manchunan Z,.cideut (19)1) a,id the 
China Affair (1937) broke out through arbi· 
trary actions of the military on the spot. 
(3) The Go.enimeut a,id the Diet, aud public 
opinion itself were all powerless before the 
military. 
(4) The Emperor always adhered scrupulously to 
constitutional procedures. 
In the following pages I .",ture to state the facts 
as I remember them with respect to these pJints. 
The GMeTnment and the Mjlittlf'y 
His Majesty's erodea.ors for peace had n .. er be", 
completely successful arid to explain why, it is necessary to describe the relationship betwe", the military 
aud the Go.emment. 
From the beginning of the Showa Era (1925) the 
economic depression, a,id especially the sorry plight 
of tbe [aTmitlg commuuilies had brought 071 confusion 
and unrest. Radical ideologies affected young officers 
itl the Army a,id Na.y, breeding a spirit of defiance 
and re'J'olt agai,1S1 their superiors. In 1931, the year 
of the Manchurian Incid"'t, there occured the ",. 
called" March Iu,ident" and" No"ember Incideut," 
in which they made unsuccessful attempts to stage a 
coup d'etat to seize the Go.emment. In the March 
ltlCident, officers at higher l .. els were in.ol.ed, reo 
.. aling how deeply the canker of TecalcitrarlCe had 
eaten into the heart of the Army. Both i,lCidents 
were carefully hushed up, all information being with· 
held from the public, a,id .. '" from the Go.emment. 
They were tlot reported to the Emperor. Notle of 
the culprits were punished. The situation grew from 
bad to worse. Otl May 15, 1932 Premier Inukai 
was shot by young Nayy officers. On the 26th of 
February, 1936, a mutiny was staged, 'in which the 
Lord Keeper of the Prr.y Seal, the Gra,id Chamber· 
laitl, the Premier, the Fitlance Minister a,id other 
important personages weTe either killed or wounded. 
Throughout these turbulent years His MajeIly did 
f"i'erything to restore order and discip!J'71t in the armed 
ser"ius. To cite a few iTu/atius as I recollect them; 
itl July 1929 the Tatlaka Cabinet resigned uuder 
Imperial reprimaud for its failure to carry out the 
Emperor's special instructions to track down aud 
punish the Army men responsible for the murder, in 
the preceding year, of the Manchurian war lord, 
Chang Tsolin. In 1931 the Emperor wamed the 
War aud Nayy Ministers agaiust the interference of 
the military in g0>ernment aud diplomacy. War 
Minister MiTJdmi, in pursuance of the Imperial wishes, 
dispatched a special emisSalY to Manchuria. The 
emissary arriyed in Mukden on the 'Yery eye of the 
outbreak of the Manchurian IrlCident. Before aud 
after the May 15, 1932 IrlCident, aud immediately 
prior to the February 26, 1936 mutiny, the Emperor 
wamed the military leaders against interference by 
soldiers in gO')lerumellt affairs, and called for strict 
enforcement of discipline. 
At the time of the February mutiny it was the 
Emperor who in the mid,t of unspeakable confusion 
ordered the suppreJIion of the uprising, aud sa.ed the 
country from an imperoding cataIlrophe. Wh", the 
Army was showing a sympathetic attitude toward the 
mutineers a,id trying to make patriots of them, the 
Emperor pronounced them to be " rebels" aud issued 
a strict command to the War Minister to suppress 
them. When Home MiniIler Goto, who was then 
acting as Premier, came to present the letters of 
resignation of his Cabillet members, the Emperor 
urged him to "use all efforts to supprm the rioters 
and to unite the Cabinet for the restorathm of order." 
Unfortunately, the Cabinet was too weak a,id helpless . 
To the Deputy·Chief of Army General Staff, 
Sugiyama, who repoTted on the partial promulgation 
of martial law, the Emperor inquired if he had 
completed plans for suppressing the rebel force, aud 
cautioned him agai,\st abuse oj martial law by the 
military. The War Minister recommetided to His 
Majesty, through His Majesty's Chief Aide-de.Camp, 
the formation of a temporary cabinet calculated to 
humor the rebel officers, who were then demauding 
the eIJablishment of a military go.ernment uuder the 
War Minister. The Emperor rejected the proposi. 
765

[768면]
lion, saying H I hdlle already ordered the Go'Vemme1lt 
to suppress the rebels." Despite repeated demands 
from the Throne, the War Minister hesitated to act. 
The Supreme Military Council, which was ordered to 
take the matter in band, could reach tiD decision. 
FinaLly, the Emperor summoned his Chief Aide·de· 
Camp. " If nobody can stop the rebels," said His 
Majesty, "I will go myself Fetch the Imperial 
standard, dtld follow me." O'JIerawed, the Army 
leaders decided upon a punih>e action, and the 
rebellioll was put down completely on the 29th of 
February. 
Notwithstanding the complaint _oiced among young 
Army officers, the Emperor always treated the political 
affairs and military affairs 011 an equal footing. For 
the disposition of the former he relied on the ad_ice 
and assistance of the ministers of Jtate; dUJ for the 
latter, on the counsel of his chiefs of staff-llamely 
the Chief of the Army General Staff and the Chief 
of Na_y General Staff. But when .. er the recom· 
me"da/ioll of the military ad-visers ra1' coutl/er to the 
policy of the Go>emment, he rese,.ed his appro.al. 
For instance, when at the outbreak of the Ma7lchurian 
Incident ;n September 1931, a contiuge,,! of the 
Japanese Army ill Korea crossed the border into 
Mauchu,ia to reinforce the Kwantu1lg Army without 
an Imperial CommaJld and agai1JJt the GO)lerumen(s 
policy of n01l~extensio1l of hostilities, the Emperor did 
not gil'e post facto approya! on the arbitrary action 
of the Commander of our Korea71 forces u"h"1 the 
GOyermneTlt had sanctioned au appropriation for this 
troop moyemeut. Again, on the occasion of a 
So.iet-Japanese clash at Chang.ku-feng on the So_iet· 
Manchurian border, when the Chief of the General 
Staff recommended to the Throne the dispatch of 
reinforcements, His Majesty who had been ad.ised by 
the Foreign Minister of the Goyemmem's opposition, 
disappra.ed the measure. 
It rruty be noted that the Imperial Rescript on 
Japan's wilhdrawal from the , League of Nations 
colltaitls the setlle1lce : 
" We command that all public ",.ants , whether 
ci_ilian or military, shall faithfully perform hir 
. d d " appomte uty ........ . . 
This was inserted at the express wirh of the 
Emperor. It differs somewhat from the passage in 
766 
the Imperial Rescript issued on the occasiotl of his 
acceSSLOtl to the Thro ",e, which reads" with the ciyil 
seryice as the warp aud the military as the woof." 
III the light of the political background as described 
aboye, the i1ltemion of the Rescript is clear and was 
to warn the military agailut trespassillg UpOtl the 
sphere of ciyil goyemment . 
Some time after the war's end His Majesty spoke 
to his entourage of his difficult posItion in those 
years as follows: 
H I was greatly worried oyer the possible consequences of the reckless beha.ior on the part of the 
young Army hot heads. I seized "ery opportullity 
to caution the military leaders, but because of the 
spirit of ;lISubordination and defiance pervading the 
ranks, their words were of no ayai/. But I could flot 
>ery well speak directly to officers on the lower 
echelollS. That would destroy the >ery structure of 
control and direction. Here was m 1 problem. 
Among my trusted ad.,isers there were many who 
strOl'e day and night to curb the excesses of the 
military, howel'er, these metl hdd either to lose 
positions of influence, or eyen to sacrifice their 1Ier., 
li)les. 
The Manchurian Incident and 
China Affair. 
The Manchurian Incident of 19JI was aggra_ated 
and expanded in scope by the Japanese forces all the 
spot against the policy of the Go.ernment. 
The Emperor "'as alarmed at the I4lk of the so· 
called strong foreign policy of sol.ing by force the 
problems of Manchuria and Inner M .Jill,0lia prior to 
the outbreak of the Incident. He took up the rruttter 
",ith the then Premier Baron Wakatsuki. 
U You are settling these problems," remarked His 
Ma/esty, "of Manchuria and Mongolia on the basis 
of Sino-Japanese amity, I hope." 
The Premier at once relayed the Imperial words to 
his Cabinet, and the GO>ernment's policy for amicable 
solution was reaffirmed. 
But scarcely a month had elapsed before the 
Incide/lt sl4rted on September 18, 19JI. The conflagration spread to Shanghai where a _iolent anti· 
Japanese movement flared out. In Februar, 19]2.

[769면]
the newly formed Inukai Cabinet was obliged to 
difpatch au Army contingent to rescue the Japanese 
marine corps which was threatened with antu"hilation 
by a superior Chinese force. 
The conseusu! of both Go)'ernment and pri"lldte 
drcles;1I Tokyo was: U Our armed forces, once 011 
foreign soil, are beyond the control of the home 
GO)'tmmenl, and hostilities are l,kely to expand 111/0 
an all-out war between Japan dnd China." 
Howt'JIer, contrary to these gloomy forebodings, 
General Shirakawa, Commander of the Expeditionary 
Force, after a series of fierce battlej had succeeded 
in driyj"g the enemy from around the Inlemationai 
Settlement, proclaimed a cease fire order to all his 
forces, much to the chagrin of his staff officers who 
wanted to pursue the fleeing Chinese. It Wds May 
3rd, the very day on which the League of Nations 
was scheduled to deliberate on the Shanghai incideul. 
This dramatic "ent had a background which was 
then not hown to the ",orld. General Shirakawa, 
appointed Commander of the Expeditionary Force, 
went to the palace to take le""e of His Majesty. 
Calling the General to his side the Emperor discoursed 
on the international situation. 
U This is entirely my personal wish," Idtd the 
Emperor, "But when you ha .. achi"ed the purpose 
of restoring peace to the Settlement, I hope you will 
hold back your troops and nfl'er let them march i7ll0 
the inferior." 
It ",as this Imperial wish which the Gelleral, as a 
loyal warrior, ca"ied out to the letter, although by 
so doing he incurred the displeasure of the Army. 
When the next March 3rd (1933) came around, 
the General was dead. The day being the Dolls 
Festival Day, His Majesty s",t to Mrs. Shirak"",a 
the following poem: 
This day whell maidens celebrate 
The Feast of Dolls, 
I remember the glorious deed 
Of him who stopped war. 
Japan's withdra",al from the League of Nations 
.. as, needless to say, not His Majesty's desire. With 
the return of Lord Lytton and his pariy to Gen""a 
in October 19]2, the Commi,sion Report "'ds made 
publiC. The Emperor, being opposed to the Armis 
scheme for an independent Manchuria, considered 
that the Lytton Report should be accepted in3Smuch ds 
it recognized Japan's legitimate rights and claims i" 
Manchuria, while sustaining China's suzerainty oller 
the territory. He ",ould ha .. therefore co,!>eyed his 
view to Premier Saito dnd j'Htructed him to reconsider 
the Goyemment's unyieldinx attitude, but for the 
ad ... ice of Prince Saionji and Count Mdki1lo. It was 
the carefully considered opiuiol1 of these senior statesmen that it would be improper for His Majesty as a 
constituti(mal m07larch to iliter'Yene in matters of 
foreign policy which had bee" decided upon by the 
GOYfrnme1ll a"d duly reported to the Throne by the 
Premier. 
0" March 27, 1933, when the Japa"ese Go>ern· 
ment nOlified the League of Natio"s of Japa,,' s 
withdra",al from the League, a" Imperial Rescript 
was issued. Considering the wish of the Emperor, 
the Rescript laid special emphasis on His Majesty's 
unchallgi"g de'Yotion to the cause of international 
peace and harmony. This was intended as a warning 
to the nation against the tide of dnti-foreignism ariJing 
with its ",ithdr"",al from the League. 
Matsuo .~a, Japan's delegate to Gene"d, returned to 
Japan after lhe break with the League of Nati01lS, and 
said: " From the mom",t I had recei>ed the Imperial 
Command and left Japan, I was always "",are of ",hat 
was expected of me by His Majesty, which certai,Jy 
wds not our withdr"",al from the League. I do "ot 
understa"d why I, ",ho ha>e failed in this importd71t 
mission, should be welcomed back like a 'Victorious 
general by a segment of the public." The Emperor's 
senh"menu are well indicated in this remark of 
Matsuoka. 
The Jehol expedition of 19]2-33 became a subject 
of discussion by the League of Nations. The Emperor thought of a plan of ca/ling an Imperial conference. It failed to materialize because Prince 
Saionji held the .iew: " From the beha>ior of young 
officers these days, there is little hope for the SUccess 
of such a plan. After a/l, it ",ould be best to let 
the Premier assume the enbre responsibility for coping 
'With the current situation." 
The China Affair started in 1937 by the Army 
on the spot as 'Was in the case of the Ma,,,hurian 
Incidellt. The Emperor, deeply concerned o>er the 
767

[770면]
trend of the conflict spreading from North China to 
Central China, CO'ltrary to the GOJlemmenl's d'tlOTVed 
policy of 1Ion*extension of hostilities, con'Ytyed his wish 
to Premier Konoye to call an Imperial conference 
and establish a basic national policy for the restoration 
of peace. The Premier, horvt'Yer, hesitated for 'Yariour 
reasons to carry out this Imperi,:,l wish. 
From the first conference which was called under 
the First Konoye Cabinet on January II, 1938, to discuss China policy following the failure of the peace 
negotiations through the i,uermediatio1l of the German 
Government to the last conference of D ecember I, 
194', which decided upon war with America and 
Britain, Imperiaf. conferences were held eight times. 
But there conferences were purely ceremonial, tls.they 
did nothing but adopt formally, in the Imperial presence, the decisions that had already been reached at 
the Liaison Conference betweetl the Go>emment and 
High Command, independetltly of the int<1ltions of 
the Emperor. Such being the case, the confere1lces, 
instead of pro )liding an occasion to restrain the military, stT'JIed rather to adliance the cause of their 
aggressi .. policy_ 
The Pacific W tIT 
From the beginning to the end the Emperor was 
aetermin ed to pre-yent war. Words fail me to describe His Majesty's anxieties and endea.ors in this 
respect_ As one who persoTkllly attetuJed him, I find 
it painful to recollect the momentous de.elopmenl5 of 
those days leading to the Pacific Wetr. 
It was at the Imperial conference of September 6, 
'941, that the Emperor counselled for peace, by reciting the famous poem of the Emperor Meiji: 
When alJ on the four seas 
Are, 1 beli",., brethren, 
Why this tumult of winds and wa>eso world! 
This episode, which was mentioned in the policy 
statement of Premier Higashikuni before the P05lsurrender Diet, is minutely related in the memoirs of 
the lette Prince Konoye. 
On the ",e of the Septemher 6th conference Premier Konoye reported to the Throne on the draft reso768 
lution on the a~enda. The Emperor was shocked 
to diKo'JIer that the draft resolution con/aifled a paragraph calling for a decision to declare war with the 
time limit set at the first part of October_ He demanded d ".ision, but the Premier could not accede_ 
Therefore, His Majesty summoned the Chiefs of the 
Army a,uJ Na.y General Staff a,uJ obtained assurance 
to the effect that the High Comma,uJ considered the 
resolution to gi>< diplomatic negotiations priority O'Ver 
war. His Majesty caused both the GO'Vemment etnd 
High Command to confirm the same assurance. 
As stated before, an Imperial conference 'Was 
rtrictly a formal affair, muJ it proceeded like a ceremony with the Premier presiding and the Emperor 
taki7lg 110 part whatsoe"JIer in its deliberations: Howe1leT, on this occlZSion His Majesty, breaking the (UItom, took the floor a,uJ made clear what he wanted_ 
Ne>erthelw, the draft resolution was adopted without 
a word of amendment. 
Now why did the Emperor appro>e this resolution 
to which he had openly declared his objection? 
From the days of M:iji it had been an un:vritt<1l law 
that the Emperor would approve any decision of the 
GO'Vernment, n"er would he >eto it. His Majesty 
adhered firmly to this constitutional usage as his own 
personal creed_ As a matter of fact this practice was, 
I am sure, the most appropriate means of safeguardnag monarchy from fallin6 into dictatorship and fitting 
it into the SJstem of a C07lSh"lulional gOl'emment. 
With the stagnation of the Japanese-American 
C07 .. ersation and the approach of the date set for decision to fight, the Kono ye Cabinet resigned en bloc 
on October 18, 194'_ War Minister Tojo, who 
wrecked the Konoye Cabinet by his war-like stand, 
received the Imperial command to form the Iuccesfor 
cabinet. This has in"ited criticism from "ariow 
quarters. Let me explain! 
Under the old constitution of Japan the selection 
of a Premier was made, as a matter of tstdblished 
custom, through the recommendation of the Lord 
Keeper of the Pri.y Seal ",ho was co,mantly in attendance upon the Throne to tender ad.ice and 
assistance. Marquis Kido, Lord Keeper of the Pri.y 
Seal, who at this fateful juncture had to recommend 
a neJV Premier, took, needless to IdY, eyery pOIIible 
care and cetution. As Chief Secretary to the Lord

[771면]
Keeper of the Pri>y Seal I kno:v ",ell the circumstance 
of General Tojo's se/ection. Marquis Kido beli",ed 
that a man ",ho could successfully cope "'ith the 
situation at that critical moment had to meet the 
following t",o conditions: 
I. Instead of plunging immediately into ",ar, he 
must seek to bring the Japanese-American 
negotiation to a successful conclusion. 
2. In case of a selllement ",ith the United States, 
he must command enough influence to hold 
d01Vn the malcontents in the armed ser'Vicesespecially in the Army. 
After careful c07lsideration the Marquis came to 
the conclusion that no 01,. but General Tojo could 
meet these qualifications. So, "'ith the appro.al of 
the senior Ita/esmen he recommended Tojo as Premier. 
As for the jirst condition Marquis Kido had been 
assured of General Tojo's .iew that",ar "'ith America 
and Bril4in must be a.erled as long as the Na.y 
Minister lacked conjidence in the ",ar (the fact that 
he did lack it had been ascerl4ined by Kido from a 
reliable source). 
With respect to the second condition Tojo himself 
had told His Majesty that in case the JapaneseAmerican negotiations succeeded, he ",ould suppress 
e.en at the risk of his life any dissatisfactiM ",ithin 
the Army. Moreo.er, the War Minister had demonstrated his power ",hen he forced the resignation 
of the Army Commander, a Di.ision Commander, 
and a Brigade Commander for the forcible landing 
of troops in French Indo-China, cOlltrary to the 
instructions from Tokyo. It was these concrete facts 
which con.inced the Marquis of the reliability of 
General Tojo ",ith regard to his control o.er the 
Army. 
On the day War Minister Tojo was commanded 
to form a new cabinet, Marquis Kido cony eyed an 
Imperial message to both War and Na.y Ministers 
stating: "In deciding upon the fundamental line of 
national policy, you .,ill, .,ithout being bou,ld by 
the decision of the September 9 Imperial conference 
decision, co,lducl a .,ider and deeper study of the 
situation at home and abroad and exercise utmost cart 
and prudence." This message, in order to ensure 
accuracy, ",as drafted jirst in "'riting (I myself .,rote 
the draft), a,ld ",as read aloud to the ministers by 
the Marquis. Hi, Majesty's intentia. .,as e>idcnt: 
"G;"e up 'lour war decision, and work sillgle~heartedl'Y 
for peace 1" 
On October 18, 1941, the Tojo Cabinet came into 
being. The new Premier in conformity .,ith the 
Imperial message made earnest endea'JIors toward the 
success of the Japanese-American negotiaticms. Unfortunately his efforts failed and ",ar ",as declared, 
frustrating the hopes of His Majesty. But the Emperor stro'JIe to the last minute to pre'Yellt the war. 
It ",as early in No.ember 1941, as I recall, that 
the Emperor happened to hear about the Premier 
tuT1Jing cool toward the Japanese-American negotiatiJ1IJ. He asked Tojo ifhe wasconductinJ in eaTtiest 
the negotiatiom ",ith the United States. Tojo replied 
in the affirmative. 
On No.ember 29, 1941, His Majesty summoned 
to the paldce ex-Premiers, political leaders, the President of the Pri.y Council, as ",ell as the Premier and 
principal miuisters of srutes for an informal discussion. 
His Majesty had jirst suggested to the Goyernment to 
call such a meeting, but ",h", the Cabinet declined, 
the Cabinet members and the senior statesmen wer. 
called separately, to meet at the sametime, and talk 
matters over in an informal fashion. The meeting ",as designed by the Emperor to se"'e as an 
oppartunity for the senior sl4tesmen to speak their 
minds a,ld moderate the stiff attitude of the Goyernment. 
The Emperor has since told me direct/y, "Most 
of the senior statesmen were opprJJed to war. Unfortunately, their opini(Jn was abstruse and could not 
hold down the Cabinet members .,ho cited jigures to 
support their contentions." 
On the morning of No.ember 30, 1941, the day 
after the abo.e-mentioned palace meeting, the Emperor heard from his Brother, Prince Takamatsu, 
attached to the Na.y General SI4/f, that the Na.y 
lacked confidenc.e i1l a war 'With America and Britain. 
If true, that ",ould be an absolute reason not to jight, 
or at least it would serve as a starting point for a 
mo .. against.,ar. The Emperor immediately asked 
the Premier to postpone the Imperial conference, 
scheduled for the following day. It pro.ed to be 
the last of such conferences preceding the declaration 
of ",ar. At the same time he summoned the Na.y 
769

[772면]
Minuter and the Chief of the Navy General Staff 
,,,,d inquired about the prospects of the tld.al operation. They replied that as Na.y leaders they had 
full confidence in their plans for 11a)lal warfare. 
Thus on December 1, 1941, the Imperial conference 
attended by all members of the Cabinet, the Chiefs 
of Army and Na.y General Staffs and the President 
of the Pri.y Council, was held, presided oyer by 
Premier Tojo. War with America dud Britaiu was 
the final decision. 
The message of Presidetlt Roose>elt, his last attempt at presI!T.ing peace, reached Tokyo on December 
7,1941. But it was 15 minutes past midnight when a 
copy was delivered by Ambassador Grew to Foreign 
Minister Togo, who reported its contents to His 
Majesty at O}OO, December 8. At that time it was 
°730, December 7 in H Ollolulu, or some 20 minutes 
before Japanese tkl)la/ aircraft reached Pearl Harbor. 
In Washington it was 1}00, just the hour of appointmerit for Ambassador Nomura to deii}ler the last 
memorandum of the Japanese Go'Vemmeni to Secretary of State Hull. In point of time it was no 
longer possible to call off the moyements of Japanese 
land and sea forces which had already started on a 
gigantic scale. 
Foreign Minister Togo, who had apparently confar ed with Premier Taja before coming to the palace, 
ad.ised His Majesty that no reply was t"cessary. 
He departed after obtaining the permirsioll to transmit 
a brief Imperial mesS4ge to the American ambaslador. 
This, I belieYe, was doue. 
Couceming the abo>, episode His Majesty said to 
me later, ." I wished to answer the personal cablegram 
from the American President, but I was persuaded 
not to do so by Foreign M;fluter Togo who told me 
I had beller not serod a reply because hostilities would 
start on the 8th, changing the situation completely." 
Accordiug to what I was told by Ambassador 
Kurusu, who was i,,.yited to tl btl" quet gi')len by 
Premier Tojo soon tlfter his return on the exchtlnge 
ship in the summer of 1942, the con')lersatiotl tlt 
·the table had tumed to the subject of Presideut 
Roose'Yelt's messtlge, tlnd the Premier remtlrked, H If 
the Americtltl note of NOl'ember 26 had not been 
as htlrsh as it was, tltui Jf the President's messtlge htld 
arri')led etlrlier, wtlr would htl')le been J"mpossible." 
770 
If, indeed, there htld been tl few days' time, tlS 
Premier Tojo said, the Emperor would 1Iot hdl'e desisted from cooperatiflg in the peace proposal of the 
President. 
The Emperor's Legal Status 
The Emperor once told his etllourage.- U Before 
doing auythi11g I ha')le made it my rule to rely on 
the adyice of my counsellors, and never to reject such 
ad. ice. Only twice in my life haYe I acted on my 
own i,u"tiative, once at the time of the February 26 
luddent, 1936, and again at the time of surrender." 
The Emperor personally ordered the suppression 
of the rebelliou allending the February 26 It"i:/ent 
because, with the Premier beseiged by rebels, the 
Cabinet had ceased to function. The Army leaders 
were all so upset that they did flOt know what to do. 
His Majesty's close ad.ism, the Lord Keeper of the 
Pri.y Seal had been killed, the Grand Chamberlain 
sen"ously wounded, and there were none tletlr him to 
shoulder the responsibility for assisting mod ad. ising 
the Throne. The Emperor had no alteTtldtive but 
to assume the dJ"rech'on for htl1uiling the emergency. 
There Ctlt! be no question of the constitutiolltllity of 
his action J"n that ctlse. 
At the time of the termJ'tltltiotl of the wtlr there 
existed both the GOYemment and the High Command. 
But both had lost their fuuctiotlS as the supreme 
orgtltlS of sttlte to advise tl1ui tlssist the Throll.e" In 
this respect the situtltJ"071 was similar to that of the 
February 26 Incident. That is to say, on the question of accepting or rejectiuJ the Potrdam Decltlratio1l, 
opinion was so hopelessly di.ided among the leaders 
of the GOYernment atod the High Command that the 
Premier asked the Throne for tl decision. 
The Emperor's attitude was consUtent throughout 
aud the fault lay with the Premier aud other leaders 
of the Go>'mment atod the High Commatod who wert 
found wanting iu the discharge of their duty to ad')lise and assist the Throne in the affairs of state. In 
fact, it was for exactly this reason that the Su~uki 
Cabinet resigned en bloc immediately followiug the 
Emperor's radio address 011 the terminatiotl of war. 
Afterwards, the Emperor told the Miuister of the 
Imperial Household Ishiwata: " At that time I was

[773면]
con'JIinced of the necessity of e1u1ing the war. What 
worried me was that if the GO'JIernment atui the High 
Command had come to an agreement aud the continuation of the war had been decided upon as the 
policy of state, I would ha., had to appro .. the 
decision against my persotlal con'JIiction. To my 
great relief, the decision was left to me." 
Now at the outbreak of the Pacific War the situation was totally different. In this case the GO'JIemment and the High Command, which were responsible 
for tendering ad'JIice and assistance in these respective 
spheres of political affairs and military matters, had 
agreed. The policy of the state was decided upon 
and the Emperor could do no other than appro .. the 
decision in accordance with the constitutiatlal usage. 
Prior to that fatal moment His Majesty, as described 
already, had done "erything he could as a constitutional monarch to ayert the war. 
Adherence to the constitution was set down by the 
Emperor as the first principle of goyemment. At 
e'JIery change of cabinet he would enjoin upon the new 
Premier strict obser'Yance of the constitution. This 
might appear all too proper for comment. It had 
howe'JIer, a great significance at the time of his reign, 
when radical ideologies were sweeping o .. r Japan. 
We ollie it to His Majesty that we were able to preser"lle, somehow, our constitutional gO'JIernme11t through 
those years during which dictatorship and force pre.ailed in some quarters of the world. Years in which 
Japan itself saw the political parties become powerless 
and open threats to brush aside the parliamentary 
gO'Yemment itself 
"The King reigns but does not rule." This 
English proYerb was literally translated into action by 
His Majesty. The pri7ICipie under the old constitution that the Emperor shall always rely on the 
advice and assistance of his ministers in all matters 
of state, had established a rule that the Emperor was 
not to exercise the "eto as an Imperial prerogatille. 
His Majesty had an occasion early in his reign to 
confirm his faith in this unwritten law. 
In July 1929 Premier Tanaka, as I said before, 
resigned after halling reeeilled an Imperial reprimand. On recollecting the episode "Iears afterwards, 
His Majesty said to us: " There I went too far; 
I was young. It ga'Ye currency to such annoying 
rumors as 'palace intrigue' or 'senior statesmen's 
block, which were in .. nted by the military and the 
rightists, and which had a bad effect upon goyernment. 
This bitter experietlCe has taught me to be always on 
guard against exceeding my limits." His Majesty's 
ath·tude toward the constitution was born of a profound reflection on his responsibility as sc»ereign and 
hi, ceaseless selfdiscipline and self-restraint from wilful 
and arbitrary ach·oTl. 
In his Memoires Pri7ICe Konoye appears to blame 
the passi .. attitude of the Emperor for the inability 
of the gO'Yernment to stop the war. This is a most 
regrettable mis-statement on the part of the Prince who 
had failed to Ii .. up to his ollln resp07"ibility as 
Premier. 
As I ha .. already said, His Majesty expressed his 
opposition to the .iew of the military at the Imperial 
confewlCe of September 6, 1941, and prodded the 
GOllemment on tf) peace efforts. If Prince Konoye 
hads hown a greater zeal {or peace he would ha .. 
been able to obtain His Majestls support and hold 
down the military. 
Again, if, at the Imperial conference of December 
I, 1941, which decided upon war, there had been a 
single member of the Cabinet standing against war, 
it might haye gi .. n the Emperor an opportunity to 
do something to allert war. But that conference attended by all ministers of state as well as the Chiefs 
of the Army and Nayy commands unanimously decided on war. As head of the state haying a constitution and parliamentary system it was unthinkable of 
the Emperor to 'Yeto tHis decision. 
By respecting the constitutional function of the 
GO'Yermnent the Emperor did not mean to ellade his 
responsibility as so .. reign. Nor was he blindly bound 
by the letter of the constitution. He only conformed 
to the tenet of constitutional gO'Yernme1,t, which rejects dictatorship and absolutism. 
771

[774면]


[775면]
REPORTS OF GENERAL MAcARTHUR 
VOL I: The Campaigns of MacArthur in the Pacific 
VOL I: Supplement: MacArthur in Japan: The Occupation , Military Phase 
VOL II: Japanese Operations in the Southwe st Pacific Area 
" ... This report has been prepared by the General Staff to serve as a background for, and introduction to the detailed operational histories of the various tactical commands involved . 
The pressure of other duties having prevented my personal participation in its preparation, it has 
been entru sted by me to that magnificent staff group which actually conducted the staff work during 
the progress of the campaigns. They speak with that sincere and accurate knowledge which is possessed 
only by those who have personally participated in the operations which they record . . . " 
Preface by General Douglas MacArthur. 
Senior Commanders : Southwest Pacific Areas 
Gen W. Krueger : Sixth Army ; Lt Gen R . L. Eichelberger : Eighth Army; Gen Sir Thomas Blarney: 
Aust. Imp . Forces ; Lt Gen G. C. Kenny: AAF; Adm T. H. Kinkaid , USN: Seventh Fleet 
The General Staff: GHQ: Southwest Pacific Area 
Lt Gen. R. K. Sutherland , CofS; Maj Gen R . J. Marshall, D cors ; Maj Gen C. P. Stivers, G-I: Maj 
Gen C. A. Willoughby, G-2; Maj Gen S. J. Chamberlin, G-3; Maj Gen L. J. Whitlock, G-4; Maj 
Gen S. B. Akin, CSO; Maj Gen W. F. Marquat, AAO; Maj Gen H. J. Casey, CE; Brig Gen B. M. 
Fitch , AG; Brig Gen L. A. Diller, PRO . 
Editor in Chief 
Maj Gen Charles A. Willoughby, G-2 
Sen ior Edi tors 
Col E. H. F. Svensson, G- 2; Gordon W. Prange PhD ; Mr. Stewart Thorn 
Associate and Contributing Editors 
Brig Gen H . E. Eastwood, G- 4; Col F. H. Wilson, G- 2; Col R. L. Ring, G-2; Col W. J. Niederpruem , 
G-3 ; Lt Col M. K. Schiffman, G-2 ; Maj J. M. Rob erts, G- 3; Capt J. C. Bateman, G- 2; Capt Mary 
Guyette , G-2 ; Capt John L. Moor e, G-2 ; Lt Stanley Falk , G-2; Mr. Jerome Forrest ; Mr. Kennet h 
W. Myers; Miss Joan Corrigan. 
Translation- Interrogation- Production 
Lt Col W. H . Brown, G- 2; Louis W. Doll, PhD ; Capt E. B. Ryckaert , G-2; Capt K. J. Knapp , Jr., 
G- 2; Lt Y. G. Kanegai, G- 2; Mr. James J. Wickel; Mr. John Shelton , ATIS ; Mr. Norman Sparnon , 
ATIS; SFC H. Y. Uno , G-2 ; Mr. K. Takeuchi; Mr . S. Wada. 
773

[776면]
