[669면]
CHAPTER XX 
DECISION TO SURRENDER 
Background of the Peace Movement 
In early August of 1945, Japan strove to 
complete preparations for a final supreme effort 
to repel an invasion of the home islands. At 
the same time a crucial internal struggle on the 
highest plane of the nation's political leader· 
ship was about to culminate in a decision to 
avert national destruction through the acceptance of Allied surrender terms.' 
The earliest tangible development in the 
political evolution toward peace occurred in 
September 1943. At that time, a small group 
of the so-called jushin,' or "senior statesmen" 
acting on the initiative of ex-Premier Admiral 
(ret.) Keisuke Okada, requested Premier Hideki 
Tojo to sit down with them in a frank discussion 
of the war situation.' The veiled purpose of 
this move was to discredit the Tojo regime with 
the ultimate objective of forcing its retirement. 
Admiral Okada, the prime instigator, believed 
that a general peace would be impossible as 
long as Tojo remained in office. 
Already, by this date, the successive defeats 
suffered by the Japanese forces in the Southwest Pacific were beginning to have repercussions at home, despite attempts by the 
Government and High Command to conceal 
them. In Europe, Italy had dropped out of 
the war, and the military fortunes of Germany, 
Japan's sole remaining ally, were already on 
the wane. These factors, coupled with deteriorating economic conditions at home, steadily 
undermined Tojo's populariry. An undercurrent of dissatisfaction with existing leadership began to take shape in February 1944 
when Premier Tojo and Navy Minister 
Shigetaro Shimada moved to tighten their 
control of the fighting services by assuming 
concurrently the posts of chiefS, respectively, 
of the Army and Navy General Staffs.' 
The senior statesmen not only were influenced by these trends but secretly exploited 
them. By late spring of 1944, they had gained 
sufficient strength and confidence to urge their 
views more strongly. In mid-July the disastrous 
loss of Saipan gave them an opportuniry to 
I This chapter was originally prepared inlapanese by Capt. (Navy) Atsushi Oi. For duty assignments of this 
officer, cf. n. 1. Chapter X. All source materials cited in this chapter are located in G-2 Historical Section Files, GHQ 
FEC. 
2 Thejushin (literally, U principal subjects I') comprised all living statesmen who at one time had held the post of 
Premier; it also included the Privy Council President. Like the genro, or "elder statesmen" whose function they in 
part inherited, the jushin had no constitutional position. The Emperor's consultations with the jwhin were usually 
carried out by the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, traditionally the Emperor's closest political advisor. Baron Reijiro 
Wakatsuki, Admital Keisuke Okada, Koki Hirota, Prince Ayamaro Konoye, Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma, General Nobuyuki Abe , Admiral Mitsumasa Y onal and Baron Yoshimichi Hara, Privy Council President, made up the iwh;n group 
at that time. Wakatsuki, Okada and Konoye were more active in the move toward peace. 
3 Statement by Admiral (ret.) Keisuke Okada, Premier, lui H-Feb 36. 
4 General Hideki T ojo already held the post of War Minister in addition to the premiership. The action 
whereby he and Navy Minister Shimada installed themselves simultaneously as Chiefs of the Army and Navy General 
staffs was criticized in some Army and Navy circles as reminiscent of the usurpation of Imperial prerogatives by the 
Tokugawa Shogunate. (Cf. Ch~pter X, n. 25.) 
669

[670면]
press for the resignation of the Tojo Government . Tojo realizing the graveness of the 
situation tried to settle it by reorganizing his 
Cabinet but this attempt failed and found 
himself without the support of the Emperor. 
This blow was fatal.' 
On 18 July simultaneously with the public 
announcement of the fall of Saipan, General 
Tojo resigned with his entire Cabinet to end 
33 months' continuous tenure of the premiership. The collapse of his Government marked 
an important political turning point of the war. 
The jushin had made their influence felt.' 
The Tojo Ministry was succeeded by a 
government headed jointly by General (ret.) 
Kuniaki Koiso, and Admiral (ret.) Mitsumasa 
Y onai, a former Premier and well-known 
Navy moderate. Despite the cabinet change, 
however, a fundamental political shake-up 
such as was required to pave the way for any 
real peace endeavor had not been effected_ 
In the first place, although the Emperor had 
charged Koiso and Y onai with joint leadership 
of the new Government, Koiso was given the 
premiership. The hope was that he would 
succeed in establishing a national Cabinet, 
coordinate effectively political and military 
leaders, and maintain close liaison with the key 
fighting service. Furthermore, the Army consented to place its nominee, Field Marshal 
Sugiyama, in the Cabinet as War Minister 
on the condition that the new Government 
would continue the vigorous and determined 
prosecution of the war.' 
Nevertheless, an initial success had been 
secured. In Admiral Y onai, who was himself 
a member of their group, the jushin now had 
a strong sympathizer in the Cabinet. Y onai, 
in accordance with the Emperor's mandate, 
took the post of Deputy Premier. More 
important, he assumed the concurrent post of 
Navy Minister, which automatically entitled 
him to first-hand information regarding the 
war situation and the plans and decisions of 
the Navy High Command.· 
Although Y onai was the jushin's greatest 
hope in the new Cabinet, Premier Koiso 
himself was not always optimistic about the 
war. He believed that the wisest course lay 
in first attempting to wean China away from 
the Allied camp by means of a separate peace, 
and then seeking the mediation of the Soviet 
Union or some other neutral with a view to 
a general peace settlement on favorable terms. 
Before initiating any such move, however, he 
felt that it was essential to score one substantial 
military success in the field in order to improve 
Japan's bargaining position .-
With this end in view, Koiso devoted his 
first efforts to reinforcing the national war effort. 
5 (I) KYDkuto KDkusai Gunji Saiban ni ok"" HikDkunin KidD KDichi no S",,,i KDkYDSho flJI(IiII~.$~"J tc;&Nt 
'!>!JIi1ltMF'¥-<v1rW Ilfjti!} (Aflidavit of Defendant Koichi Kido in Internalional Military Tribunal for the Far East) 
For English translation, see IMTFE Record, pp. 31,°76-1°4 . (2) Shusen Oboegdki ~~ .... , (Notes on me Termination of the War) Kobun-do, Tokyo, 1948, pp. 7-12. 
6 General Tojo himself recognized that the jushin were instrumental in causing his downfall. When he went 
to the Imperial Palace to render the Cabinet's resignation, he was asked by Marquis ICido if he desired to recommend a 
successor to the premiership. His reply was, "I think. that the responsibility of the jushin for the present cabinet 
change is heavy. In consequenceJ they may have already formulated their own plan. Therefore, I will not express my 
views.JJ In factJ the jushin. in response to an Imperial command. met at 1600 the same day (18 July) and decided their 
recommendations to the Throne., Affidavit of KidoJ op. cit., IMTFE Record. p. 3 I ,082. 
7 In accordance with standard practice, Marshal Sugiyama was selected for the War Minister's post by the Army 
II Big Three IJ: the outgoing War Minister, General Tojo i the Chief of Army General Staff'J General Yoshijiro Umezu; 
and the Inspectorate General of Military Training, Marshal Sugiyama himself. General Tojo had also resigned as Chief 
of Army General Staff on 18 July. General Umezu immediately succeeded him. 
8 Since the Navy Minister had to be an admiral or vice admiral in active service, Yonai was hastily restored to 
the active list while the formation of the Cabinet was in progress. This essential move had been planned well in advance 
of the downfall of the Tojo Cabinet. 
9 Direct Testimony of Defendant Kuniaki Koiso. IMTFE RecordJ pp. 32.251-+ 
670

[671면]
Soon after assuming office, he supplanted the 
old Liaison Conference between Imperial 
General Headquarters and ' the Government 
by a new Supreme War Direction Council.' · 
The purpose of this body, in which key 
members of the Cabinet sat together with 
representatives of the High Command , was 
to assure full coordination of the civil and 
military branches of the Government . The 
Council, however, failed to achieve the results 
which Premier Koiso expected, and he 
discovered that he was unable to obtain all 
the military information he desired. 
Despite the expectations of the jushin, the 
Koiso Cabinet's official policy continued to be 
one for all-out prosecution of the war. An 
Imperial conference held on '9 August formally adopted a basic policy declaration which 
emphatically stated that the war would be 
prosecuted to the end regardless of continued 
enemy successes or of unfavorable international 
developments. Foreign Minister Mamoru 
Shigemitsu prevailed upon the conference not 
to exclude diplomatic action designed to 
improve Japan's positions, notably by strengthening relations with the Soviet Union." However, the military success which Premier Koiso 
deemed a prerequisite to any broad peace 
maneuver was still unrealized, and the situation 
remained at a stalemate. 
In the fall of 1944, Koiso hoped that the 
Sho-Go Operations might bring the victory 
needed to pave the way for a peace attempt. His 
hope was soon shattered by events. The allout effort of the sea and air forces to smash the 
enemy invasion of Leyte in October ended in 
failure, and in less than two months General 
MacArthur's forces had won a secure foothold 
in the central Philippines . On the diplomatic 
front, a proffer to dispatch a special mission to 
Moscow to begin the task of cementing 
Japanese-Soviet relations had meanwhile been 
rebuffed by the Soviet Government." 
Japan therefore /aced a darker situation than 
ever before as the year '945 began. So gloomy 
were the prospects that the Emperor himself 
felt impelled to reveal to the jushin his anxiety 
for an early peace. Early in January, when 
the enemy invaded Luzon and American carrier 
forces bo!dly swept Japanese shipping in the 
South China Sea, the Emperor told Marquis 
Kido, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, to arrange 
audiences with the jushin.') 
Early in February these confidential meetings 
got under way. Because of fear that any 
inkling of their purpose might arouse opposition, extreme precautions were taken. No 
formal audience was granted to the jushin 
collectively. Instead, they were individually 
summoned to the Palace at different times, 
ostensibly for the purpose of paying their 
normal mid-winter respects to the Throne. '. 
10 The Supr~me War Direction Council, formed on 5 August 1944, consisted of six members: the Premier, 
the Foreign, Navy, and War Ministers, and the Chiefs of the Army and Navy General Staffs. 
I I Shigemitsu, in line with Army and Navy policy, inserted in the basic declaration a clause which provided that 
H in the event Germany collapses or makes a separate peace, Japan will attempt to improve her world position through 
utilizing the Soviet Union." According to post-war statements by Shigemitsu, his purpose in inserting this proviso was 
"to obtain a certain amount of freedom of diplomatic action, which could be gradually developed into a peace move." 
(Statement by Mamoru Shigemitsu, Foreign Minister, Apr 43- Apr 45.) 
12 (1) Ibid. (2) Affidavit of KQiso, op. cit., IMTFE Record, p. 23,253. 
13 Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMtFE Record, p. 31,IIO. 
14 II Since it was the common belief that the jushin were advocates of peace (Konoye, Okada, Wakatsuki and 
Yonai), it was almost certain that, if an a~dience were granted, they would be suspected of advising the Emperor to end 
Ihe war. Consequently, a very grave problem would arise." (Statement by Marquis Yasumasa Matsudaira, Chief 
Secretary to the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, Jun 36-Nov 45.) 
671

[672면]
Between 7 and 26 February, the Emperor 
conferred with seven senior statesmen, including ex-Premier Tojo and former Lord Privy 
Seal Count Nobuyuki Makino. The senior 
statesmen were unanimous in sharing the Emperor's deep concern over the trend of the war. 
Tojo, however, was the most optimistic, while 
Prince Konoye and Admiral Okada were the 
most pessimistic. Prince Konoye bluntly stated 
that Japan faced certain defeat and urged the 
Emperor to take resolute steps toward peace. " 
The audiences marked a significant milestone 
on the road toward peace. For the first time 
since the outbreak of the war, the Emperor had 
held a free exchange of views with the majority 
of the jushin. More important, the advocates 
of peace now had a clear indication that the 
Emperor himself was strongly sympathetic 
towards their views. With this encouragement, they quietly waited for a fresh opportunity 
to advance the cause of peace. 
During the next two months the Koiso 
Cabinet continued to fare badly on both the 
military and diplomatic fronts. While General 
MacArthur's forces made rapid headway on 
LU2on, the Pacific prong of the enemy's offensive swiftly overwhelmed Iwo Jima and then, 
on I April, thrust at Okinawa in the Ryukyus. 
On the diplomatic front, relations with Soviet 
Russia tended to worsen rather than improve, 
and Premier Koiso's hopes of winning China 
away from the Allies through peace overtures 
to Chungking remained unrealized. ,. 
In spite of serious efforts, the Koiso Cabinet 
was unable to show any positive achievement. 
The Cabinet as a whole was ",npopular. The 
war situatlon failed to improve and the Premier 
himself was unable to coordinate the political, 
diplomatic and military fronts. By the latter 
part of March, he had decided that it was 
useless to remain in office unless this situatlon 
was promptly remedied. 
Early in April, the Army proposed to relieve 
Field Marshal Sugiyama of his post as War 
Minister and to replace him by General Korechika Anami. Koiso promptly decided upon 
a final effort to strengthen his position and 
proposed that, instead of substituting Anami, 
the Army agree to his own assumption 
of the war portfolio concurrently with the 
premiership. On 3 April Koiso intimated his 
hopes to Sugiyama, but the answer of the 
Army" Big Three'~ was a blunt refusal. ' 7 
Convinced that his position was no longer 
tenable, Premier Koiso tendered the collective 
resignation of the Cabinet on 5 April. Even 
as he did so, the complete failure of the 
diplomatic policies pursued by his Go~ernment 
was being underlined in Moscow by a blunt 
notification to the Japanese Ambassador, Naotake Sato, of the Soviet Government's intention 
to abrogate the Soviet-Japanese neutrality pact 
because it had " lost its significance." ,8 
In relinquishing the premiership, KOlso 
made it plain that, under the circumstances 
confronting the nation, he considered it absolutely essential to install" an Imperial General 
Headquarters Cabinet." To all practical intents and purposes, this meant "a Cabinet in 
which the Premier assumes an influential 
15 Affidavit of Kido, op. cit. , IMTFE Record, pp. 31,113-14. 
16 In March Koiso proposed to launch such overtures through the intermediary of Miao Pin, a Chinese who was 
believed to have close connections with General Ho Ying*chin, Chiang Kai-shek's minister of war. Koiso invited Miao 
Pin to Tokyo , but the plan collapsed due to the opposition of the Foreign, War and Navy Ministers, who strongly 
doubted that. Miao Pin was a trustworthy and qualified intermediary. (1) Ibid., pp. 31,115-16. (2) Stalement by 
General Koiso, previously cited. 
17 Affidavit of Koiso, op. cit., IMTFE Record, PP' 32,254-6. 
18 The five·year neutrality pact had been concluded on (3 April 1941 and was not to expire until April 1946. 
The Foreign Office revealed the Soviet Government's abroga .. ion notice WltnOUl comment 10 an announcemem issued at 
1400 on 6 April. Nippon Times, Tokyo, 7 Apr 45. 
672

[673면]
position in the Imperial General Headquarters 
to direct the conduct of the war." ,. 
Obviously, however, the idea of installing 
an " Imperial General Headquarters Cabinet" 
did not conform to the ideas of the peace 
proponents among the jushin, nor did it conform 
to the wishes of all elements in the Japanese 
Army and Navy. Some of the jushin, notably 
Okada and Konoye, had already laid their 
plans for an attempt to install a cabinet which 
would offer greater possibilities for the realization of peace. In this delicate undertaking, 
they had the powerful support of Marquis Kido, 
the Emperor's closest advisor, who henceforth 
was to play a leading role in the struggle to 
attain the peace objective. 
Formation of the Suzuki Cabinet 
At '700 on 5 April, less than seven hours 
after Premier Koiso had formally tendered 
the Cabinet's resignation to the Emperor, 
the jushin met in conference with Marquis 
Kido to deliberate on whom they should recommend to the Throne as head of the next Government. Six former Premiers, among them 
General Tojo, assembled at the Imperial Palace 
to attend this crucial meeting. The conference 
also included the president of the Privy 
Council, Admiral (ret.) Baron Kanraro Suzuki.~ 
The choice before the conference was both 
grave and delicate. With Okinawa already 
invaded and German resistance in Europe 
nearing complete collapse, it was certain that 
the Allies would soon begin massing their 
concerted forces for the final assault upon Japan 
itself. It was imperative in view of the complex 
and serious milirary and political 'problems 
that faced Japan that the proper man be 
chosen. Since the collapse of the Koiso Cabinet 
was foreseen in advance, the leaders of the 
peace group had ample time to consider all 
aspects of the question. 
By 5 April, when the conference of senior 
sratesmen convened, they had not only reached 
an understanding among themselves concerning their choice for Premier but they had also 
obtained assurance of the approval of Kido 
himself. Their unanimous decision was that 
onl y one man filled the exacting requirements 
essential to the success of their plans. That 
man was Admiral Suzuki, the 77 year old 
president of the Privy Council. 
Admiral Suzuki's background unquestionably fitted him for the role which the peace 
group wanted him to play. His active naval 
career had ended in '929 when, at the specific 
request of the Emperor, he had stepped down 
as Chief of Navy General Sraff to become 
Grand Chamberlain, a post of advisorship to 
the Throne second only to that of Lord Privy 
Seal. After seven years in this position, he had 
barely escaped death by assassins' bullets in the 
abortive military uprising of 26 February, 936, 
one of the aims of which was the elimination 
of moderate influences around the Throne." 
'9 (,) Allidavit of Kido, 0p. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 31,,,8-'9. (2) Kido NiHi *J"I'IIa (Kido Diary) 
Entry for 4 Apr 45. 
20 The six former Premiers attending the conference were: Prince Ayamaro Konoye. Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma, 
Baron Reijiro Wakatsuki, Admiral Keisuke Okada, Mr. Koki Hirota, and General Hideki Tojo. Affidavit of Kido, 
op. cit., IMTFE Record, p. 31 , 122. (Two jushin were absent; Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai, who was barred from 
participating by reason of his tcnure of the deputy premiership and naval portfolio in the outgoing Cabinet; and General 
Hiroyukl Abe, currently serving as Governor·General of Korea.) 
21 Suzuki was among those marked for assassination because he was believed to have played an important part 
in engineering acceptance of the London naval disarmament treaty over the opposition of the Navy General Staff, and 
also because he opposed military encroachment in political affairs. Adm iral Viscount Makoto Saito, then Lord Privy 
Seal, Viscount Korekiyo Takahashi , then Finance Minister, both liberals, and General Jotaro Watanabe, then Army 
Inspectorate General of Military Training, were those actually killed. Admiral Okada , then Premier, eacaped assas· 
sination only because his brother·in·law was mistaken for him. Suzuki's life was saved by his wife, who shielded his 
body with her own after he had been wounded, preventing the assassins from completing the job. Both Prince Saionji 
and Count Makino, the Emperor's most trusted statesmen, were saved thanks to a timely police warning. 
673

[674면]
The Emp eror had then relieved him of his 
duties as Grand Chamberlain , and Suzuki had 
subsequently held no post other than membership of the non-political and large ly inactive 
Privy Council. He had risen to its presidency 
late in 1944. 
The important "thing about Suzu ki's record 
was that, while it generally stamp ed him as 
a ma~ of moderate ideas , it contained nothing 
which put him in the camp of the peace advocates. Thus , although some extremist elements 
were bound to regard him with suspici on, they 
could find few concrete charges to level against 
him. There was no doubt , moreover , that 
Suzuki possessed the full confidence and trust 
of the Emperor .
n 
The fact alone would go 
far to assure his Cabinet of popular support. 
In spite of this understanding among the 
members of the peace group and Marquis 
Kido, the conference of the senior statesmen on 
5 April lasted three hours and was mark ed by 
weighty discussion of the problem of peace or 
war as well as the premiership . At the very 
outset, General Tojo demanded that the conference first decide on the basic issue of peace 
or continuation of the war: " The next Cabinet 
must be the last Cabinet in this war," he said. 
"There prevails within the country today , two 
views- one, that we would continue the war 
to the bitter end, and the other , that we should 
meekly accept the terms of unconditional 
surrender and sue for peace as soon as possible. 
It is necessary that we settle this question 
first." " Baron Wakatsuki did not entirely 
agree with Tojo : "The Council of Senior 
Statesmen is consulted only in the selection of 
the premier-d esignate. The suggestion brought 
up by Tojo is beyond the scope of this conference." At the same time , he warned however: "The new Cabinet must win the war. If we 
should propos e peace now, it is clear that our 
ultimate fate will be unconditional surrender. " " 
Hiranuma on the other hand agreed with 
Tojo in principle: "The selection of the 
new Premier had an intimate and important 
bearing on the question of peace or continued 
resistance. The new Premier must be a 
man who will fight to the end. We cannot 
nominate an end-the-war peace advocate." " 
The peace faction, thus , refused to disclose 
their hand , either side-stepping the issue on 
the ground that it lay outside the province 
of the jushin, or unctuously supporting Tojo's 
contention that the new Cabinet must carry 
on the war to the bitter end. Suzuki, 
himself, unaware that he was being considered 
by the peace group , agreed , before his own 
name ~d been placed in nomination , that the 
next Premier must possess the " will to fight to 
the last." '· 
Underlying the deliberations of the conference, however, was the well-phrased remark 
voiced earlier by Admiral Okada , that the next 
Cabinet might have to "shoulder the nation's 
destiny to the end. " " 
This remark by a leading member of the 
jushin peace group was a veiled clue to the 
group's real intent, the installation of a cabinet 
oriented toward the earliest possible termination 
of the war. Admiral Okada and his associates 
22 Marquis Matsudaira, who had long been a prominent Court official and who served as chief secretary to Lord 
Privy Seal, Marquis Kido for ten y ears, describes the relations between the Emperor and Admiral Suzuk i as follows : 
"The Emperor embraced an especially warm feeling for the Admiral. . . .. . He always felt, ' I can tell Suzuki what I 
really want to say w ithout hesitation." (Statement by Marquis Matsudaira, previously cited.) 
674 
23 Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, p. 31,123. 
24 Ibid., pp. 31,131-136 . 
25 Ibid., pp. 3','24-'3+ 
26 Ibid., p. 3' ,'32. 
27 Ibid., p. 3',123,

[675면]
felt that now, at last, they had reasonable hopes 
of attaining this difficult objective. The main 
opposition they had to face within the conference of senior statesmen itself was that of 
General Tojo. Far more important, Army 
popularity, under the impact of successive 
military reverses overseas and mounting war 
suffering at home, had reached its lowest ebb 
since the outbreak of hostilities. There was 
consequently less probability that the Army 
would insist upon installing a candidate of its 
own for premiership!' 
Still, the leaders of the peace group realized 
that they must play their hand with the utmost 
cau tion. No one could yet advocate peace 
openly . Moreover, if the peace group aggressively advocated a Premier who was obviously 
from their own camp , there was danger that 
some extremist elements would either block the 
formation of such a cabinet or sabotage its 
efforts once it was installed. The problem of 
the peace advocates, therefore, lay in finding ' a 
candidate who would fulfill all the difficult 
requirements for the premiership. From their 
own viewpoint, he must be essentially a moderate whom they could influence toward accepting 
their .thesis that the nation 's best interest lay 
in seeking an early peace. On the other hand, 
he must be a person who would minimize the 
possibilities of inviting suspicion from the 
extremist elements; lastly and very important, 
he must be someone free of political ties or past 
commitments which would brand him as an 
opponent of the war. 
These three basic requirements were absolutely essential, but there were others almost 
equally as vital. It was important too that the 
next Premier possess the stature necessary 
to restore public confidence in the national 
leadership and secure united obedience to the 
decisions of the Government . On this, perhaps, 
the civilian peace group and the military were 
in full agreement, with different objectives, 
however, in mind. It was also of particular 
importance to the plans of the peace faction 
that the Premier be someone whose loyalty to 
the Throne was outstanding and in whom the 
Emperor reposed implicit trust. The reason 
for this lay in the fact that the peace group 
clearly saw the necessity of making the Emperor's will for peace a decisive factor in the 
realization of their objective. 
It was not until the discussions were well 
along that Baron H iranuma finally proposed 
Suzuki. The latter protested that he did not 
want the nomination, but the peace group 
unitedly backed Hiranuma's suggestion, as did 
Marquis Kido . General Tojo, supported only 
by Hirota, strongly insisted that the fighting of 
the homeland battle required an Army man as 
Premier and stated that he considered Marshal 
Hata the best choice. Unless the senior 
statesmen took care, he warned, the Army might 
turn its back upon the new Cabinet." 
28 At the time of the Koiso cabinet's resignation, considerable sentiment existed among certain elements in the 
War Ministry and Army High Command in favor of a succeeding government headed by an active Army General, 
mainly with a view to fighting the decisive homeland battle. The most favored candidate of these elements was General 
Korechika Anami , Inspectorate General of Army Aviation and former commander of the Second Area Army in Western 
New Guinea and Halmahera, while some quarters favored Marshal Shunroku Hata, and others General Umezu, Chief 
of the Army General Staff. Nevertheless, when Marquis Kido, immediately following Koiso's resignation, asked for 
the views of the War and Navy Ministers and Chiefs of the Army and Navy General Staff regarding the next Cabinet, 
neither War Minister Sugiyama nor General Ume zu positively expressed themselves in favor of a cabinet under Army 
leadership. (1) Statement by Lt. Col. Masao Inaba, Military Affairs Bureau, War Ministry. (.) Kido Diary, op. 
cit. Entry for 5 Apr 45. appended pages relative to talks with Marshal Sug iyama and General Umezu . 
'9 Affidavit of Kido, op. cit. IMTFE Recotd, pp. 31,138-'41. 
675

[676면]
Tojo's blunt words precipitated the only 
heated exchange of the three-hour conference. 
Marquis Kido retorted that, were an Army man 
to take the premiership in disregard of the 
strong anti-militarist sentiment in the country, 
it might be the people that would "turn its 
back." Admiral ' Okada, siding with Kido, 
pointedly asked Tojo what he meant by saying 
that the Army, whose duty was to defend 
the nation, might refuse to support a Premier 
who had duly received the Emperor's 
mandate.'· 
Despite these arguments the conference had 
served its purpose. Marquis Kido had heard 
the views of evetyone present, and it was clear 
that Suzuki was the choice of the majority. 
The only obstacle lay in persuading Suzuki to 
accept the nomination. 
Marquis Kido convinced Suzuki to become 
Premier in a private talk with him after 
the jushin meeting. Their discussion was of 
the highest importance, for in it Kido referred 
30 Ibid., p. 31,142. 
obliquely to the necessity of a "yolte-face in 
policy" in view of the grave war situation. 
Suzuki replied that, if commanded to assume 
the premiership, he would do his best to fulfill 
the Emperor's wishes." Kido then submitted 
his recommendation to the Throne, and at 2200 
the Emperor received Admiral Suzuki in audience and gave him the Imperial mandate to 
form a cabinet . His Majesty seized the occasion 
to emphasize his deep concern over the trend 
of the war, but he judiciously refrained from 
binding the hands of the premier-designate by 
an explicit request for early peace." 
Admiral Suzuki thus embarked on the formation of his Cabinet free from any rigid policy 
commitment but at the same time well aware 
of the over-all mission which the Emperor 
desired the Cabinet to carry out." He now 
faced the task of obtaining the Army's cooperation. Failure in this would mean the prompt 
collapse of his efforts to form a government. 
As General Tojo's remarks at the jushin 
31 No written record of this conversation exists, and there is some question as to the explicitness of the language 
used by Marquis Kido to convey to Admiral Suzuki the Emperor's desire for early peace. Replying to a questionnaire 
submitted by the author in May 1949, Kido stated that he explicitly told Suzuki that it was the Emperor's desire II to 
have the war terminated during your premiership." However, when interrogated further on this point on 20 December 
1949 , Kido admitted that he II did not explicitly say that the mission of the next government should be to end the war 
quickly )J, but that he used U such words as could be taken that way" and that his impression at the time was that 
U Suzuki understood what I meant." It appears most probable, therefore, chat Kido did not go beyond stressing the 
Emperor's grave concern over the trend of the war and his desire for a drastic about-face in policy. Post-war statements 
by Suzuki confirm, however, that he understood from his talks with Kido and the Emperor that the mission of his 
Cabinet was to be the conclusion of an early peace. (Cf. n. 33) (I) Statements by Marquis K.ido, previously cited. 
(2) Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, p. 3','43. 
32 According to Marquis Matsudaira, who was at this time Chief Secretary to Marquis Kido, the Emperor 
refrained from any explicit mention of peace in his initial talk with Admiral Suzuki because he already" knew the general 
course in which the Admiral's thinking was being directed" and felt that a hasty approach at this stage would be unwise. 
Matsudaira states that the Emperor told him after the war, "I was aware of Suzuki's mind from the very first . .. . and 
was convinced that Suzuki understood what I really had in mind. Consequently, I was not in a hurry to communicate 
to him my desire for peace in express words." (Statement by Marquis Matsudaira, previously cited.) 
33 ([) Interrogated by the United States Strategic Bombing Survey in December 1945, Admiral Suzuki stated, 
"At the time I became Premier, I did not receive any direct order from the Emperor, but I understood clearly from 
what the Emperor said to me at that time that he was very much concerned over the situation that Japan faced in the 
war, .. . over the death of civilians due to bombing , the general sickness and great number of civilian casualties, and the 
great losses in the field of battle. U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey (Pacific), Inl<rrogations, No. 53" (2) Statement by 
Vice Adm. Seizo Sakonji, State Minister without portfolio, Suzuki Cabinet. 
676

[677면]
conference had forewarned, there was indeed 
an undercurrent of opposition to Suzuki's appointment among the extremist elements in the 
military_ The rumor was that Suzuki would 
establish a Japanese" Badoglio Government_" 
Actually, some desired a cabinet headed by 
General Korechika Anami, Inspectorate General 
of Army Aviation and ex-commander of the 
Second Area Army, who had already been 
slated to succeed Marshal Sugiyama as War 
Minister just prior to the fall of the Koiso 
Cabinet_ The Cabinet's resignation, however, 
occurred before the change-over had been 
effected_ 
Following est&.blished practice, the Army imposed certain conditions for its cooperation in 
forming a cabinet. The Army's conditions 
were, in fact, drawn up in the War Ministry's 
Military Affairs Bureau, some of the members 
of which shared the extremists' strong suspicion 
of Suzuki's intentions. The conditions laid 
down were:" 
I. Prosecution of the war to the finish. 
2. Formatiotl of a cabinet such as to assure the 
edTliest possible unification oj the Army and Na.y_ 
3. Prompt execution of measures desired by the 
Army to assure .ictory in the decisi .. battle of the 
homeland. 
All three stipulations had the same essential 
purpose: to prevent any peace designs on the 
part of the premier-designate . The outgoing 
War Minister, Field Marshal Sugiyama, 
approved the conditions in toto as dratted in the 
Military Affairs Bureau, and presented them to 
Admiral Suzuki on 6 April, when the latter 
called to request the Army's cooperation in 
forming the new cabinet." In this talk with 
Marshal Sugiyama, Admiral Suzuki agreed to 
the Army's terms." The premier-designate 
could not ignore the fact that if he took issue 
with the Army at this stage it would undoubtedly result in his failure to form a cabinet_ 
Suzuki's sole hope of success lay in accepting 
the Army's conditions. 
As it was previously decided, the Army 
promptly recommended General Anami as War 
Minister in the new Cabinet. This choice 
actually coincided with Admiral Suzuki's own 
desires. Concurrently with Suzuki's tenure as 
Grand Chamberlain, General Anami had 
served as Military Aide-de-Camp to the Emperor, and the two men respected and liked 
each other. Suzuki felt that he would have 
less difficulty in cooperating with Anami than 
with any other nominee the Army might have 
advanced to fill the vital war portfolio. 
The next problem was the choice of a Navy 
Minister. Admiral Suzuki who was leaning 
heavily on the advice of Admiral Okada in 
regard to the formation of the Cabinet," strongly desired Admiral Y onai to retain the naval 
portfolio. The Navy's choice was Admiral 
34 Statement by Lt. Col. Masatoki Shirai, Military Mairs Bureau, War Ministry. (The drafting of the Army's 
conditions was assigned to Lt. Col. Shirai.) 
35 (.) Ibid. (2) War Ministry Radio, Vice-Minister of War to Commanding Generals of all Armies, 6 
Apr 45. 
36 The Army and Navy required that War and Navy Ministers be chosen from general or Bag officers in active 
service, which enabled them to block the formation of a cabinet by refusing to nominate a minister. Admiral Suzuki 
had to reckon with the possibility that the Army would resort to the device if he declined to accept the stipulated conditions. 
37 According co Admiral Okada 's son-in-law, Mr. Hisatsune Sakomizu , Admiral Suzuki contacted Okada by 
telephone early on 6 April and requested his assistance in selecting the Cabinet. Mr. Sakomizu, who himself was given 
the posr of Chief Cabinet Secretary on Admiral Okada 's recommendation, saw a significant indication of Admiral Suzuki's 
intentions in the fact that he relied almost exclusively on Okada's advice rather than on that of Baron Hiranuma, also il 
member of the jushin group which secured Suzuki 's nomination, but a man with far less pronounced peace convictions 
than Okada. Only one person, Kozo Ota, recommended by Hiranuma , was given a cabinet post as Educacion Minister. 
(Statement by Mr. Hisatsune Sakomizu, Chief Cabinet Secretary, Suzulc.i Cabinet.) 
677

[678면]
Y onai, though Y onai himself wished to stay 
out of the Cabinet. Admiral SuzukI, however, 
wanted to sound out the Army's attitude 
regarding Y onai in the light of the second of 
the three conditions already accepted by him 
since Y onai was strongly opposed to the Army· 
Navy unification plan. There was also the 
Army's attitude regarding the reappointment 
of Y onai, who had been the Deputy Premier 
concurrently holding the position of Navy 
Minister in the out-going Koiso Cabinet . 
When the Army's opposition to Y onai did not 
appear so inflexible as to foreshadow outright ' 
rejection of his appointment, Suzuki decided to 
carry it out." Y onai himself was persuaded to 
accept despite his earlier intention to remain 
out of the Cabinet." 
The most vital post still remaining to be 
filled was that of Foreign Minister. Marquis 
Kido had urged Admiral Suzuki on the 
night of 5 April to reinstate the out-going 
Foreign Minister, Mr. Shigemitsu.'· Suzuki, 
however, received contrary advice from the 
retiring Premier, General Koiso, and therefore 
decided to offer the post to Mr. Shigenori 
Togo, who had been Foreign Minister at the 
outbreak of war but had resigned in September 1942 as a result of a disagreement with 
General Tojo's policies regarding the establishment of the Greater East Asia Ministry. 
Suzuki's decision won the concurrence of 
Admiral Okada and Marquis Kido, who 
agreed that Togo could. be counted upon to 
work for the early termination of the war.'-
Meanwhile, the composition of the rest of the 
Cabinet had been determined. " Rather than 
await the acceptance of the Foreign Ministry by 
Togo, who was then residing in Karuizawa, 
Admiral Suzuki decided that the new government should assume office immediately. The 
installation ceremony was therefore held at 
the Imperial Palace on 7 April, the Premier 
temporarily assuming the foreign affairs portfolio himself. The officially-controlled press 
38 Mr. Sakomizu, already picked by Suzuki as Chief Cabinet Secretary, conferred with Lt. Gen . Masao Yosh izumi, 
Chief of the Military Affairs Bureau of the War Ministry, regarding the Army's attitude toward YonaL Lt. Gen. 
Yoshizumi informed Salcomizu that the Army considered ¥onai unsuitable for several reasons but did not go so far as 
to rejea him. (Statement by Lt. Gen. Masao Yoshizumi, Chief, Military Affairs Bureau, War Ministry.) 
39 Admiral Yonai felt that it was improper to enter the new Cabinet since he had been Deputy Premier of the 
preceding Government and shared responsibility for its failure. He wished to be succeeded as Navy Minister by Admiral 
Shigeyoshi Inouye, then Vice-Minister and a strong liberal, but the latter declined, and Yonai instead recommended 
Admiral Kiyoshi Hasegawa. Kido Diary, op. cit. (Entry f~r 5 Apr 45, appended pages covering talle with Admiral 
Yonai regarding next cabinet.) 
40 Kido made this recommendation because he already knew Shjgemitsu's views and felt that" his retention would 
facilitate the early realization of peace." Suzuki at this time expressed concurrence. (Statement by Marquis Kido, 
previously cited.) 
4' (I) Affidavit of Admiral Baron Kantaro Suzuki. IMTFE Record, pp. 3','90-91. (.) Statement by 
Marquis Kido, previously cited. 
42 The Cabinet list covering posts other than the top four already mentioned was as follows: Home Affairs, 
Genki Abe j Finance, Toyosaku Hirose j Munitions, Admiral Teijiro Toyoda; Agriculture and Commerce, Tadaatsu 
Ishiguro j Transportation, Naoto Kohiyama; Education, Kozo Ota j Justice, Hiromasa Matsuzaka; Welfare, Tadahiko 
Okada. Also included in the Cabinet were four State Ministers without portfolio : Vice Adm. Seizo Sakonji, Lt. 
Gen. Toji Yasui, Hyogoro Sakurai, and Hiroshi (Kainan) Shimomura (the last serving concurrently as President of the 
Cabinet Information Board). Three others who were not Cabinet members but sat in on its discussions were: Lt. Gen. 
Tsukizo Akinaga, Chief of the Cabinet Coordination and Planning Bureau j Mr. Hisatsune Sakomizu, Chief Cabinet 
Secretary; and Naokai Murase, Chief of the Legal Bureau. 
678

[679면]
promptly hailed the new cabinet as one for the 
vigorous prosecution of the war," and Premier 
Suzuki himself furthered this impression by a 
strongly-worded radio broadcast to the nation 
on the night of the 8th." 
The Cabinet was now safely installed, but the 
vital question of who would become Foreign 
Minister remained undecided . Premier Suzuki 
conferred with T~go immediately upon the 
latter's arrival in Tokyo on 8 April and urged 
him to take the post. This meeting confirmed 
that Togo was strongly for ending the war. In 
fact, as a condition for entering the Cabinet, he 
demanded such clear-cut peace commitments 
on the part of the Premier that Suzuki , still 
uncertain in his own mind as to how soon 
peace should be attempted, was unable to 
satisfy Togo completely. The talk therefore 
ended without an agreement." 
This unexpected hitch spurred the peace 
forces into action. Chief Cabinet Secretary 
Sakomizu called on Togo the following day and 
assured him that the Premier's goal was an 
early peace, although his position made it 
impossible for him to give a clear-cut commitment. Marquis Kido, Admiral Okada, Marquis 
Matsudaira and others also appealed to Togo 
to accept. They emphasized that Suzuki's 
unduly optimistic estimate of how much longer 
Japan could continue fighting-the only point 
of disagreement-was not inflexible, and that 
it was essential for Togo to enter the Cabinet 
in order to influence the Premier. Yielding 
to these concerted pleas, Togo again met 
Suzuki on 9 April and agreed to join the 
Government ." 
The completion of the Cabinet with Togo'S 
installation as Foreign Minister marked a signal 
achievement for the advocates of peace. Of the 
four principal Cabinet figures, two-Y onai and 
Togo-were definitely in the peace camp. 
Premier Suzuki himself was basically convinced 
that the war must be ended and knew that this 
was the Emperor's desire, although it was 
evident that he did not, at this stage, grasp the 
full graviry of the war situation and the consequent urgency of initiating peace without delay. 
Still, the formation of the Cabinet was only 
the beginning , and the most difficult part of the 
road remained to be travelled. To win and 
retain the Army's support, thus keeping his 
Cabinet in being, Premier Suzuki had pledged 
his Government to a policy of fighting the war 
to the finish and realized further that he would 
43 The Mainicbi dubbed the new Cabinet as a H Cabinet to repulse the enemy H and saw its primary mission in the 
H consolidation of the fighting strength of the entire nation." Although this was the general theme, the morc liberal 
Asahi cautiously referred to the importance of diplomacy as the" other half of war policy" and hinted that the new 
Cabinet might be obliged to give its diplomacy U a drastic turn in a new direction." (1) Mainichi Shimbun fiflj)f!le 
(Mainichd·.jewspaper) Tokyo, 8 and 9 Apr 45. (2) As4hi Shimbun ~Hlilii/lll (Asahi Newspaper) Tokyo, 7 and II 
Apr 45. 
44 In this broadcast, Suzuki exhorted the nation II to march on over my dead body when I die for my country.') 
Raikichi Kono, Shuun no H,ojo : S_ki K4nt4ro Jutsu It'. CD ~t1!f : n*:Jt;tl!~l.t (Features of the Termination of the 
War; as told by Kantaro Suzuki) Rndo Bunka Sha, Tokyo, 1946, pp. 10-11. 
45 Togo told Marquis Matsudaira, Kido's chief secretary, following th1s.zmeeting that he (Togo) and Premier 
Suzuki were agreed in principle regarding the necessity of ending the war. Whereas, Togo , however, held that it must 
be terminated as soon as possible, Premier Suzuki had expressed the opinion that Japan might be able to continue 
fighting for II two or three years more, depending on the circumstances n . In view of this difference of opinion, Togo 
told Matsudaira, he felt that he and Premier Suzuki would have difficulty in agreeing on high policy regarding the war, 
and he therefore did not wish to accept the Foreign Ministry until he was certain of Suzuki's attitude. Affidavit of 
Marquis Matsudaira, previously cited. IMTFE Record, p. 35,5¢. 
46 (I) Affidavit of Hisatsune Sakomizu. IMTFE Record, pp. 35,604-5. (2) Affidavit of Marquis Matsu· 
daira, op. cit., IMTFE Record, PP' 35,5¢-7 . (3) Affidavit of Shigenori Togo. IMTFE Record, pp. 35,779-80. 
679

[680면]
have to adhere faithfully to this poLey until a 
more auspicious moment when the necessity for 
peace was generally recognized'" 
Premier Suzuki had now entered upon 
a delicate and complex task-one fraught 
with danger, personal as well as national. He 
realized not only that he risked his own life, 
but . that any mis-step or ill-considered action 
might cause . the newly formed Cab inet to 
collapse, thus not fulfilling the miSSIOn 
entrusted to it by the Emperor ." 
Initial Peace Discussions 
In view of these highly complex circum stances, it was natural that the Suzuki Cabinet, 
during the first month of its existence, showed 
no visible sign of harboring peace intentions. 
Indeed, Premier Suzuki and even the more 
strongly peace-minded of his ministers fully 
realized that it was essential to make the 
strongest possible defense of Okinawa and to 
intensify homeland battle preparations to the 
maXlmum in order to place Japan in a better 
position for an eventual peace move." 
The Government therefore concentrated its 
initial attention on moves to expand war production and ameliorate the increasingly serious 
situations in regard to food and transportation. 
At the same time, acting through the Supreme 
War Direction Council, Premier Suzuki requested a comprehensive survey by the Council 
secretariat of all aspects of the national 
fighting strength.'" This survey was of vital 
importance, for it was intended to provide 
a sound basis for judgement as to whether 
and how long Japan could continue the war. 
Meanwhile, as the rapid convergence of 
Allied armies on Berlin heralded the imminent 
end of hostilities in Europe, the Army High 
Command became more alarmed over the 
possibility that Soviet Russia might forsake 
47 The hostile attitude of some of the extremist elements (oward the Suzuki Government was not entirely allayed 
by Suzuki's acceptance of the Army's poLicy conditions. One evidence of this was the fact that Col. Kenji Ogoshi, Chief 
of the General Affairs Section of Kempeildi Headquarters , called on the Premier a week after his appointment and 
warned him that there were elements who suspected mat he was H conspiring for surrender", To this Suzuki cryptically 
replied that his greatest concern was" to remain toyal to the Emperor." Jo-o k::£ (Queen) Magazine, Tokyo, Sep 49: 
Pall of the Japanese Atmy. 
48 In a statement made to American interrogacocs after the surrender, Admiral Suzuki described his difficult 
position upon becoming Premier as follows: U On the one hand, I had (0 carry out to the best of my ability the mission 
given me by the Emperor, to arrange for the conclusion of the war, whereas if anyone heard of this, I naturally would 
have been attacked and probably k.illed by people opposed to such a policy." USSBS Interrogation No . 531, op. cit. 
49 In talks with the War and Navy Ministers and top leaders of the Army and Navy General Staffs soon after 
the formation of the Suzuki Cabinet, Foreign Minister Togo strongly emphasized the necessity of expending the greatest 
possible strength in order to win the Okinawa battle. Victory , he pointed out, would afford Japanese diplomacy 
a u basis for positive action," whereas defeat would virtuallY" rule out such action. These talks, referred to elsewhere, 
had to do with proposed moves to assure continued Soviet neutrality toward Japan and did not go so far as to touch on 
diplomatic action for peace, but Togo at least had bom objectives in mind. Togo Memoirs (Unpublished . Memoirs of 
Foreign Minister Shigenori Togo, covering the period Apr-Aug 45, pp. 7-8 .) 
50 The secretariat of the Supreme War Direction Council consisted of four secretaries and seven assistant 
secretaries. The secretaries were : Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu; Lt. Gen. Masao Y oshizumi, Chief of the 
Military Affairs Bureau of the War Ministry; Vice Adm. Zenshiro Hoshina, Chief of the Naval Affairs Bureau of the 
Navy Mini stry ; and Lt. Gen. Tsukizo Akinaga, Chie f of the Cabinet Coordination and Planning Bureau. The assistant 
secretaries included subordinate officials of the Military and Naval Affairs Bureaus and Cabinet Coordination and Planning Bureau; of the Army and Navy General Staffs, and of the Foreign Office and Greater East Asia Ministry. The 
assistant secretaries usually conducted such surveys. (Statement by Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, pre~iously cited.) 
680

[681면]
neutrality toward Japan and join the Allies as 
a belligerent in the Far East. " Since such 
action by Russia would seriously prejudice 
hopes of successfully defending the homeland 
against invasion, Lt. Gen . Torashiro Kawabe, 
Deputy-Chief of the Army General Staff, when 
he made a courtesy call on the new Foreign 
Minister in the latter part of April, expressed 
his views and urged Togo to launch diplomatic 
efforts designed to keep the Soviet Union out 
of the Far Eastern war." Togo , in fact, had 
already instructed the Japanese Ambassador in Moscow to seek assurances regarding 
Soviet neutrality. To this demarcM the Soviet 
Government, on 27 April, replied evasively 
that its attitude remained unchanged. Togo 
held that it was futile to press for a more 
concrete pledge unelss Japan's bargaining 
position was improved by a favorable tum in 
the Okinawa battle and expressed this opinion 
to the leaders of the High Command . However, since the High Command mainta ined 
that there was still ground for optimism 
regarding the Okinawa fighting , action was 
deferred pending further developments." Almost simultaneously, the unconditional surrender of Germany on 8 May brought an end to 
the war in Europe . These developments, 
coupled with the mounting devastation of the 
homeland by enemy air attacks, convinced 
Foreign Minister Togo that even a temporary 
brightening of the military picture could no 
longer be expected. It was therefore imperative, in his opinion, to launch peace efforts 
without delay regardless of the obvious weakness of Japan 's diplomatic position. Waiting, 
Togo felt, would only weaken that position 
further through the gradual exhaustion of 
Japan's fighting strength, thus jeopardizing 
the chances of obtaining a negotiated peace 
short of unconditional surrender . 
The surrender of Germany, in fact, removed 
an important obstacle to broaching the question 
of peace, for Japan was thereby liberated from 
her treaty obligation not to come to separate 
terms with the Allies." Reporting to the 
Emperor on the Nazi collapse , Foreign Minister 
Togo voiced the opinion that it was now 
necessary to consider the future policy of the 
Government in view of the unfavorable developments in Europe. The Emperor still refrained 
on this occasion from making any strong 
expression of his views but nevertheless made 
it clear that he favored an early peace." 
51 This fear had been sharply increased by the Soviet Government's notification on 5 April that it did not intend 
to renew the five-year Soviet-Japanese neutrality pact. In addition , there were ominous reports that Soviet troops were 
being shifted back from Europe to the Soviet -Manchurian border. 
52 (I) Togo Memoirs , op. cit., p . 4- (2) This matter was first broached to Foreign Mini ster Togo by Lt. 
Gen. Kawabe, Deputy-Chid of the Army General Staff. on 22 April. Coincidentally, this was the same day that Soviet 
troops entered Berlin. Statement by Lt, Gen . T orashiro Kawabe, Deputy -Chief, Army General Staff. 
53 Togo Memoirs, op, cit., pp. 4 and 8. 
54 In his affidavit to the International Military Tribunal for the Far East, Marquis Kido stressed the shackling 
effect of Japan's treaty commitments to Germany in the following words: II Up to Germany's surrender, it was thought 
that it would be open to criticism from the viewpoint of international faith to make peace proposals on the part of the 
Emperor even if the cime had virtually come for the purpose. . . . Now that Germany was gone, I believed that it 
would be desirable for the Emperor to make up his mind at this juncture, as peace would be restored to the world 
according to Japan's attitude." AHidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 31, 1 43- 4. 
55 In his report to the Emperor, Foreign Minister Togo analyzed the c auses of Germany's defeat , attributing 
major imporcance to the crushing effect of Alli ed aerial warfare. He pointed out in this connection that enemy air attacks 
on Japan were steadily mounting in severity, and that as a result production had slumped so alarmingly as to render 
continuation of the war a virtual impossibility . Future policy , he said, would have to be formulated in the light of 
these conditions . (I) Statement by Foreign Mini ster Togo, previously cited. (2) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 6. 
(3) Affidavit of Togo, 0p. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 35, 781-2. 
681

[682면]
Introduction of the volatile issue of peace 
into top-level discussions between the Government and the High Command, however, was 
a delicate problem. Foreign Minister Togo 
decided to take advantage of the military's 
wishes for a diplomatic move toward the Soviet 
Union He actually believed that little chance 
existed of obtaining from Russia what the 
military desired. However, he hoped that, if 
the leaders of the Government and High 
Command were brought together for highly 
confidential talks on this topic, it might be 
possible to swing the discussions around to the 
fundamental issue of terminating the war.'" 
Togo therefore proposed to General Umezu, 
Chief of the Army General Staff, that the 
Supremt War Direction Council meet 
for a comprehensive discussion of policy 
toward Soviet Russia and Japan's over-all war 
situation. Since full meetings of the council, 
including the secretaries, would make it impossible "to get down to fundamentals" 
because of the fear of leakage, he urged that 
the sessions be restricted to the six regular 
members only: the Premier, Foreign Minister, 
War and Navy Ministers, and Chiefs of the 
Army and Navy General Staffs." 
General Umezu fully concurred in these 
proposals and agreed to take them up with 
War Minister Anami, whose consent he successfullyobtained. Togo meanwhile explained 
his ideas to Premier Suzuki, Suzuki gave his 
approval, and with the final concurrence of the 
Navy Minister , Admiral Y onai, and the Chief 
of Navy General Staff, Admiral Koshiro 
Oikawa, the way was paved for the Council to 
open its discussions." 
The six members convened for their first 
meeting on I I May, continuing the discussions 
at further meetings on the 12th and 14th. 
The secrecy already obtained by the exclusion 
of the secretaries was further strengthened by 
an agreement among the members not to 
disclose the substarice of the meetings even to 
their immediate subordinates." Thus was 
created the nec~ary atmosphere of confidence 
to enable the members to speak their real minds 
on the subject of peace without fear of untoward 
consequences. 
At the initial meeting, the six leaders immediately grappled with the issue of moves 
toward Soviet Russia. Pointing to evidence 
of large-scale Soviet troop tranfers from Europe 
to the Far East, General Umezu declared that 
it was vitally necessary to take diplomatic steps 
with a view to preventing Russia's entry into 
56 Togo was encourage,1 to adopt this course of action by his impression, based on conndential talb with War 
Minister Anami and General . Jmezu, Chief of the Army General Staff, that neither of these two top Army 
leaders were personally opposed to the principle of terminating the war. From the viewpoint of obtaining peace 
conditions which the Army could accept, : J,.ey insisted that a big military victory must precede any approach to the 
Allies. In an exchange of views which r ogo had with Anami toward the end of April , Anami expressed general 
agreement that the situation was serious and indicated that he favored continued efforts to reach a separate peace with 
China as a prelude to a general peace attempt. (1) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo , previously cited. (2) Togo 
Memoirs , op. cit., p. 14. 
57 Togo was convinced that only by restricting the meetings of the Supreme War Direction Council in this manner 
could an opportunity be created for the leaders of the Government, on the one hand, and the High Command, on the 
other, to engage in frank. discussions on the question of terminating the war. (It is highly significant that, subsequent 
to the May meetings on the Soviet problem, the principle of restricted discussions was followed up to the final surrender 
decision, with the noteworthy exception of the Council meeting on 6 June, dealt within the following section of this 
chapter.) (1) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited. (2) Togo Memoirs , op. cit., p. 6. 
58 Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 6. 
59 According to Togo , this agreement was adopted at the insistence of one of the military members of the Council 
and was strongly supported by the Foreign Minister himself. His recollection is thac it was Admiral Koshiro Oikawa, 
Chief of Navy General Staff, who insisted 'that the agreement be adopted. (Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, 
previously cited.) 
682

[683면]
the war against Japan. This was unanimously 
agreed to by the other members, and this discussion turned to a proposal by Navy Minister 
Y onai that negotiations with the Soviet Union 
should also aim at obtaining positive Russian 
aid in the fonn of war materials, supplies, and 
especially oil. 
The latter proposal precipitated a clash 
between Yonai and Foreign Minister Togo. 
The former maintained that it was not too 
late for such an effort, whereas Togo flatly 
stated that it would be " hoping against hope " 
to think that Russia could be won over to 
Japan's side in view of the over-all military 
situation and the probable strengthening of 
Allied-Soviet ties at the Yalta conference. 
In fact, declared the Foreign Minister, the 
deterioration of Japan .'s position was such that 
earnest considerat ion must be given to steps 
for the termination of the war itself. 
Premier Suzuki intervened at this point 
to advance a new proposal. He acknowledged that Togo was possibly correct in his 
estimate that it was too late to win positive 
Soviet friendship, but he maintained that it 
would be unwise not to try to utilize Russia in 
some way advantageous to Japan. Since there 
was vita! need of finding a way to tenninate 
the war, he proposed that the negotiations with 
the Soviet Union encompass the additional 
objective of securing Soviet mediation for 
a general peace settlement with the Allies." 
No opposition to the principle of Soviet 
mediation was voiced by the military members 
at this time. 
Near the close of the three-day meetings, 
however, after general agreement had been 
reached on the concessions which Japan would 
offer as a price for renewed Russian friendship," 
Foreign Minister Togo again raised the mediation question in the hope of obtaining a more 
concrete understanding. He pointed out that 
negotiations on this matter would be expedited if an agreement were reached immediately regarding the general peace terms 
which Japan would be willing to accept. 
War Minister Anami promptly stated that 
the conditions of peace must be fixed on the 
basis of the existing war situation. Japan, he 
insisted, was not yet defeated and still held 
en,my territory of far larger area than the 
Japanese territory occupied by enemy forces. 
Togo retorted that such an attitude on Japan's 
part would mean the prompt collapse of any 
mediation effort. The peace conditions, he 
stated, must take into account not only the 
existing status but the probable future trend of 
the war, as far as it could be reasonably fore· 
seen. 
It was readily apparent that there was no 
hope of agreement on peace terms and that 
forcing the issue to a showdown at this stage 
60 Suzulci, in advancing this proposal, expressed the opinion that Stalin was a man who could be trusted. Togo 
took a contrary view, arguing that Russia's natural desire must be to reduce Japan to a position of wealeness, and that 
only by extensive concessions could she be induced to modify her attitude. In fact, Togo's outlook regarding me use 
of Russia as a peace intermediary was extremely skeptical, but it was generally recognized at this time that the Soviet 
Union was the only neutral power which, if it could be persuaded to do so, might inBuence the United States and 
Britain to relax their insistence upon Japan's unconditional surrende['. Ibid. 
61 It was agreed that Japan must be prepa['ed to scrap me Portsmouth Peace Treaty and othe[' basic t['eaties with 
Russia, and to mak.e the following concessions: 1. Recession of southem Karafuro (Salchalin) j 2. Relinquishment of 
fishing dghts in Soviet waters j 3. Freedom of the Tsuga['u Strait j 4. Transfe[' of North Manchurian ['ail ways j 5. 
Recognition of Soviet sphe['e of inBuence in Inne[' Mongolia; 6. Lease to Russia of Port Arthu[' and Dai['en j 7. If 
necessary, cession to Russia of the northern half of the Chishima (Kurile) Islands. Howeve[', Korea was to remain 
Japanese, and a maximum degree of independence was to be sought fo[' Manchu['ia by means of establishing South 
Manchu['ia as a neut['a[ zone and other means. Official Precis Agreements reached by Supreme War Oi['eaion 
Council, II, 12 and 14 May 45. 
683

[684면]
might compromise future discussions . Navy 
Minister Y onai therefore proposed that further 
consideration of the mediation proposal be 
deferred, and the Council ended its deliberations."' An official precis drawn up by 
Foreign Minister Togo after the final meeting 
on '4 May stated, in part, that the Supreme 
Council had agreed on "the speedy opening 
of talks with Soviet Russia" for the purpose of 
achieving the following three objectives :". 
1. Prt'llention of So"iet entry into the war 
against Japan; 
2. If possible induce the Soviet Go>ernment 
to obser>e a bene.olent neutrality toward Japan; and 
3. E>entua/[y obtain SOYiet mediation of a nature 
ad.antageous to Japan for the purpose of ending 
the war. 
In order to clear the decks for this vital 
diplomatic effort, the Cabinet took formal 
action on '5 May to denounce all treaties with 
Germany and Italy, including the Three-Power 
Anti-Comintern Pact of '937, which Russia 
had always regarded as directed against her." 
Togo further decided that it would be advisable, before launching formal negotiations, 
to sound out the Soviet attitude through 
unofficial preliminary talks. This mission was 
entrusted in the latter part of May to Mr. Koki 
Hirota , a senior statesman, who had at various 
times served as Premier, Foreign Minister, and 
Ambassador to Moscow."' 
Owing to difficult wartime conditions and 
the evacuation of the foreign diplomatic 
missions from Tokyo, Hirota was unable to 
meet the Soviet Ambassador , Mr_ Jacob 
A. Malik, until 3 June. Conversations took 
place on both 3 and 4 June at the mountain 
hotspring resort of Gora. Hirota intimated 
that the Japanese Government desired a longterm agreement with the Soviet Union stabilizing friendly relations between the two 
countries and asked Malik for his views on how 
this might be accomplished. The Soviet envoy 
cautiously replied that it would require time 
to consider the Japanese proposal, and the talks 
were therefore discontinued for the time being." 
Since the Government's policy had been 
decided, at least in principle, in favor of seeking Soviet mediation, Foreign Minister Togo, 
during the latter part of May, abandoned 
a tentative move initiated by the preceding 
Foreign Minister, Mr. Shigemitsu, looking 
toward the possible utilization of Sweden as 
a peace intermediary. The Japanese Minister 
at Stockholm, Mr. Suemasa Okamoto, was 
instructed that no further efforts should be 
made along this line." 
62 Account of the discussions which took place at the Supreme War Direction Council meetings on II, 12 and 
14 May is based on the following sources in the absence of any official minutes : Statement s by Admiral Koshiro Oikawa, 
Chief of Navy General Staff, and Foreign Mini ster Togo , previously cited. (Togo and Oikawa are, at the date of this 
writing, the only surviving participants in these discussions.) 
63 Immediately afcer the three-day meeting Togo drew up a precis and it was initialled by the participants. 
This original document was destroyed when the Foreign Mini stry was bombed on 25 May, but Togo made a replica 
which was initialled, this time, only by Premier Suzuki . Thi s replica was given to Admiral Soemu Toyoda when he 
succeeded Admiral Oikawa as Chief of Navy General Staff, and this is the only copy of the precis remaining. (I) 
Offici al Precis, op. cit. (2) Statement by Foreign Mini ster Togo, previously cited. 
64 Foreign Minister Togo hoped that this action would help toward H removing, if possible, the distrust and 
ill-feeling existing between Russia and Japan." Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 6. 
65 The object of the preliminary calks was mainly to sound out how far the aims agreed upon could be attempted 
and what would be the best way to persuade the Soviet Government. Ibid., p. 7. 
66 Foreign Office Radios: No. 843. Foreign Minister to Japanese Ambassador at Moscow, 28 Jun 45. 
67 During his tenure of office under the Koiso Cabinet, Foreign Minister Shigemitsu had held private talks with 
Mr .. Widar Bagge, Swedish Minister to Japan, regarding possible Swedish mediation between Japan and the Allies . Togo 
was not informed of these talks when he became Foreign Minister, but on 11 April Bagge, then about to re[Urn to 
684

[685면]
Parallel with these developments, the Navy 
learned around the middle of May of an 
American move to ascertain Japanese peace intentions. Comdr. Y oshikazu Fujimura, special 
naval attache at Berne, Switzerland, reported 
to the Navy General Staff and the Navy 
Ministry that he had been approached by Mr. 
Allen O. Dulles, a high-ranking American 
special agent in Europe. Dulles, Fujimura 
reported, proposed the dispatch of a Japanese 
naval representative of admiral's rank to enter 
into such talks. 
Fujimura's messages, for the time being kept 
strictly secret within the Navy, met With a 
cautious reception. There was considerable 
suspicion of the sincerity of the American 
feeler, but despite -this some high officials in 
both the Navy Ministry and the Navy General Staff were inclined to favor further exploration of the Dulles offer in the hope, at least, of 
ascertaining the American terms. However, 
Admiral Soemu Toyoda and Vice Adm. 
Takijiro Onishi, who took over as Chief and 
Vice-Chief, respectively, of the Navy General 
Staff in the latter part of May, both opposed 
any follow-up action on the ground that the 
move was nothing but a stratagem to weaken 
japan's fighting unity. Consequently, by early 
June, nothing had yet been done even to bring 
up the Dulles offer for serious discussion 
between the Government and the High 
Command." 
Basic Policy of 8 June 
While these highly tentative and cautious 
approaches were being made to the problem of 
peace, the military picture continued to darken 
throughout May. In the Philipp :nes, Fourteenth Area Army resistance to General MacArthur's forces was rapidly disintegrating. On 
Okinawa, the ground battle had already become 
hopeless by early May, and thereafter the 
Japanese defense became principally an effort 
by the air forces to hamper and delay consolidation of the enemy's hold on this strategic 
offensive base for a thrust toward the homeland. The enemy air offensive against the 
home islands meanwhile continued to mount 
in severity. 
The clear portent of these developments was 
that the margin of time before Japan Proper 
might be subjected to enemy assault was fast 
decreasing. Moreover, in view of the doubtful 
prospects for Soviet mediation, the absence of 
any official change in the enemy's stand on 
unconditional surrender, and the military's 
evident reluctance to accept unconditional 
Stodcholm, approached Togo through a third person to ascertain whether Togo also was agreeable to Swedish mediation. 
Togo expressed interest but was unable to pursue (he conversations due to Bagge's departure. Back in Stockholm, Bagge 
contacted the Japanese Minister, Mr. Olcamoto, somctime in May in order to discuss the matter further. Okamoto requested 
instructions from Tokyo and was notined that he should take no further action for the time being. According to 
postwar statements by Togo, he thought at first that Bagge had in mind an offer of mediation by the Swedish Government 
on its own initiative. However, when Okamoto's telegrams later clarified that Sweden would only act as a transmitting 
agent for Japanese peace proposals, Togo decided that such an approach was unlikely to produce anything better than 
unconditional surrender and that Soviet mediation was the only alternative. (I) Affidavit of Widar Bagge, former 
Swedish Minister to Japan. IMTFE Record, pp. 34,~'~4. (2) Statements by Suemasa Olc.amoto, Japanese Minister 
to Sweden and Foreign Minister Togo, previously dted. 
68 Sources covering the Dulles.Fujimura negotiations and the Tokyo reaction mereta are as follows: (I) 
Memorandum notes of Rear Adm. Sokichi Takagi, political advi$er to Chief of Navy General Staff and Navy Minister. 
(2) Statements by Rear Adm. Sadatoshi Tomiolc.a, First Bureau (Operations), Imperial General Headquarters, Navy 
Section i Admiral Soemu Toyoda, Chief of Navy General Staff; Vice Adm. Zenshiro Hoshina, Chief, Naval Affairs 
Bureau, Navy Ministry i Capt. Yoshimasa Suezawa, Chief, Naval Affairs Section, Navy Ministry j and Comdr. Y oshilcazu 
Fujimura, Spedal Naval Attache, Japanese Legation, Switzerland. 
685

[686면]
surrender before fighting the homeland battle, 
the chances were slim indeed that invasion 
might be averted by an intervening peace 
settlement . The Suzuki Cabinet , therefore, 
even while it strove to find a path toward peace, 
necessarily had to proceed until peace prospects 
became more definite, on the assumption that 
the homeland battle would be fought. This 
led, early in June, to two developments. 
The first of these developments was a decision to convoke the Diet in special session from 
9 June for the purpose of voting the Government sweeping emergency powers to prepare 
for the homeland battle. The decision was 
taken only after lengthy dispute within the 
Cabinet. Navy Minister Y onai argued that the 
Government could act by Imperial Decree 
without a prior legislative grant of authority 
and that it was an inopportune moment for 
convoking the Diet. Premier Suzuki at first 
inclined toward Y onai's view but finally 
swung over to the opinion of the majority of 
the Cabinet, including War Minister Anami 
and Hiroshi Shimomura, the Chief of the 
Cabinet Information Board, both of wllom 
maintained that a Diet session was necessary 
to bolster national morale." 
The second development was the adoption 
by the Supreme War Direction Council on 8 
June of a basic war policy which unequivocally 
called for prosecuting the war to the end . This 
was only one phase of the policy because the 
Government and even the top military leaders 
had already agreed at the secret mid-May conferences to seek eventual Soviet mediation. 
The one-sided nature of this policy, however, 
was inevitable in the light of the circumstances 
which surrounded its origin , drafting, and final 
adoption by the Council in plenary session. 
Earlier, in mid-April, soon after the formation of the Suzuki Cabinet, a basic war policy 
draft had been prepared within the Army as 
was the customary practice. The policy draft 
was intended for submission to the Government 
in an effort to coordinate the future policy of 
the Government and the High Command . 
The draft was completed by Co!. Sako T anemura of the Army General Staff and was approved by Chief and Deputy-Chief of the Army 
General Staff and by the War Minister.'" 
During the meetings of the assistant secretaries of the Supreme War Direction CO:lncil, 
who had no knowledge that the six Council 
leaders had already begun secret deliberations 
on peace, the idea developed and was generally 
agreed that adoption by the Council of a new basic war policy was necessary to meet the ever-increasing threat of an invasion of the Homeland . 
The military element in the assistant secretaries' 
group vigorously pushed this idea and since the 
discussions were similar in substance to the 
Army policy draft prepared earlier by T anemura, the Army draft bearing official approval 
was submitted to the Cabinet representatives 
~ Since the early part of May, Diet leaders had been insistently pressing the Government to convoke a special 
session. Certain members of the Cabinet felt, in view of these demands, that it would have an injurious effect on public 
morale if the Government by-passed the Diet and enforced severe emergency war measures by decree. Yanal , on the 
contrary, felt that a Diet session was highly inopportune since it would oblige the Government to take an outwardly 
strong stand for continuation of the war, which would interfere with behind-the-scenes efforts to promote an agreement 
I 
on peace. Marquis Kido lik.ewise feared that the strong war sentiment usually expressed at Diet sessions would I< hamper 
peace moves." (I) Statements by Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu and Vice Adm . Sakonji, both previously cited. 
(2) Memorandum notes Of Rear Adm. Takagi, op. cit. (3) AIlidavit ofKido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, p. 31, 146. 
70 Col. Tanemura submitted his draft to the Chief and Deputy.Chief of the Army General Staff and to War 
Minister Anami and obtained their approval in mid-April. He noti6."ed the Cabinet representatives of this fact when 
he transmitted the draft to them in latter part of May. (Statement by Col. Sako Tanemura, Military Affairs Bureau, 
War Ministry.) 
686

[687면]
in the Council secretariat in the latter part of 
May for further deliberations by the Council.7 ' 
It was a foregone conclusion that a policy 
declaration emanating from the lower level of 
the Army leadership would make no mention 
of efforts for peace. The Army's draft clearly 
reflected the dominant thinking of the military 
who were adamantly against acknowledging 
defeat and demanded the waging of a final allout battle in defense of the homeland. 
The draft was then taken up in preliminary 
discuss ions with the Cabinet representatives in 
the Council secretariat . The atmosphere in 
these discussions rendered any expression of 
peace ideas completely out of the question. 
Nevertheless an attempt was made to modify 
the terms of the policy to give it an inter· 
pretation which eventually might be exploited 
for peace purposes and also to limit the war 
objectives to the preservation of the home· 
land and the national polity . However, the 
final wording remained extremely warlike.7' 
The text of the basic policy draft read as 
follows :" 
General Policy: 
On the I1rength of its ad.antage""s geographical 
position and the undying l"lalty and solidarity of 
its people, (the Empire) ",ill prosecute the ",ar to 
the end in order to preser .. the national polity 
and protect the Imperial Homeland," thereb, 
securing tht foundalions for the future de>elop. 
ment of tht race. 
MeaSUTfJ : 
I. Preparations for baltie on the soil of tht 
hom<land ",ill speedil, bt I1rengthened, and tht 
main fighting I1rength of tht Imperial forces ",ill 
be concentrated thert. In other areas, fighting 
IIrength ",ill be disposed according to actual 
capabilities and with primary emphasis on combal. 
ing the United States as the principal <1Itm" 
taking into account al the same time the possibility 
of a sudden change in the situalion to the north. 
2. Changing tendtncitf in the ",arid ,;tuation 
"'ill be txploited through the pursuit of an acti" 
and aggrmi .. diplomacy, especially to",ard So.iet 
Russia and China, ",ith a .iew to furthering the 
proseculion of the war. 
3. On the home front, all necessary prepara· 
tions to enable the entire nation to fight unitedly 
71 The seven assistant secretaries of the CouncH, of whom (our were representative of the War and Navy 
Ministries and Army and Navy General Staffs, met twice week.ly to discuss matters of war policy. It was customary 
for these officials [0 exercise a large amount of initiative in proposing and preparing for regular Council meetings, including the drafting of documents and reports to be acted upon . It is not clear whether the Army representatives 
initiated the proposal for adoption of a new basic war policy in this instance, but they definitely played the ma.:or role 
in drafting the policy itself. (Statements by Col. Tanemura and Capt. Suezawa, both previously cited j Suezaw. was 
Navy Ministry member and Tanemura War Mini stry member of the assistant secretaries group.) 
72 In the absence of any written records covering this preliminary phase of the discussions, post-war statements 
by surviving participants are the only available sources of information. These statements are contradictory on many 
points of fact, but a careful weighing of aU the evidence supports the following conclusions, which are essentially stated 
in the text; 1 . Both the wording and interpretation of the basic policy draft were discussed between the military and 
Cabinet representatives. 2. The Cabinet representatives did not attempt to insert in the draft any explicit peace provision. 
They did, however, try to soften the wording and to place major emphasi s, in the interpretation of the policy, on the 
limitation of war objectives to II the preservation of the national polity and the protection of the Imperial Homeland." 
3. Actually, only minor changes were made in the wording of the Army-proposed draft. (I) Statements by Chief 
Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, Capt. Suezawa and Col. T anemura, all previously cited. 
73 Saiko Sensa Slndo Kaigi Tsu",ri ililliil$flilJe:mlllf (Proceedings of the Supreme War Direction Council, 
Part II: Basic Policy for Future Direction of the War.) 
74 Throughout the basic policy draft, the term Kooo ~± (Imperial domain) was employed in place of hondo, 
*± (Homeland) the term customarily used to denote the Japanese Homeland. The former, in ies strict and normal meaning, included Korea and Formosa, but as used in the basic policy, it was unquestionably intended to denote only the 
homeland, since decisive battle operations were planned only for the defense of that area. 
687

[688면]
in the deem.. battle of the homeland will be 
rushed to completion in thorough conformity with 
the spirit of a people's war. In particular, the 
GOl'ernme1&t will lay stress in all its measures on 
the replenishment of the nation's material strength, 
with special atten/ion to securing food supplies and 
augmenting the production of special weapons, as 
well as on boosting fighting morale and co",olidating national unity, with the formation of 
people's .olunlter uni/$ as the backbone of the 
program. 
4. Swift action will be taken b, the proper 
authorities to plan and execute concrete measures 
based on the present basic policy. 
The stage was now set for action. On 6 
June, the Supreme War Direction Council 
convened for a preliminary discussion of the 
draft, final action on which was to be taken at 
a formal meeting in the Emperor's presence on 
8 June. Before the discussion began, the 
Council heard two special reports presented 
by the secretaries, one summarizing the current 
state of the nation's war strength and the other 
outlining the international situation. These 
reports supposedly formed the basis of the 
policy draft but were strikingly at variance with 
the decisions contained in it. 
The analysis of the national war strength 
pointed to a sharp reduction of fighting potential due to air raid destruction and the 
severance of sea communications , particularly 
emphasizing decreased steel and aircraft production and the near· exhaustion of liquid fuel 
supplies." In the report on the world situation, these gloomy findings were underlined 
by the estimate that the Allies would launch 
a massive assault on the homeland at an early 
date and that there was probability of Soviet 
entry into the war against Japan.'" 
Despite this dark picture, Lt. Gen. Torashiro 
Kawabe, Deputy-Chief of the Army General 
Staff,n strongly emphasized that, in defending 
the homeland itself, the armed forces would be 
favored by advantages which they had not 
enjoyed In previous island campaigns in the 
Pacific. For the first time , the Army would 
be able to throw its main strength into decisive 
battle, aided by short communication lines and 
the full support of the population. It would 
take the offensive with determination to fight 
to the death and with" faith in certain victory." 
He added, however, that continued Soviet 
neutrality was absolutely indispensable to 
enable Japan to withstand invasion. '" 
Admiral Soemu Toyoda, Chief of the Navy 
General Staff, spoke with less optimism. 
There was considerable possibility, he said, 
that the enemy might invade southern Kyushu 
In July or August, or might strike directly at 
75 The conclusions stated in the report on national strength were based on data gathered by the Council secretariat 
as part of the comprehensive resurvey of the national war potential begun shortly after the formation of the Suzuki Cabinet. 
This was completed about the middle of May. Proceedings of the Supreme War Direction Council, op. cit. Part II; 
Present State of the National Strength. 
76 The report nQ[ed incipient signs of dissension among the Allies but estimated that enemy unity would be 
maintained unless the war were pro~onged. Although Soviet entry into the war against Japan was rated the greater 
probability, the report pointed to a possibility that Russia might press Japan to make peace with the United States. 
Ibid., Estimate of the World Situation. 
77 Lt. Gen. Kawabe attended the Council meeting in place of General Umezu , who had left Tokyo for an important 
conference at Dairen with the commanding generals of the Kwantung Army and China Expeditionary Forces. Umezu 
carried with him an Imperial General Headquarters order calling for a revision of command dispositons on the Continent 
to meet a possible attack by Soviet Russia. (Statement by Lt. Gen. Kawabe, previously cited .) 
78 Lt. Gen. Kawabe's statement on 6 June is summarized from an original document giving the substance of his 
identical statement made two days later at the Imperial conference which finally adopted the basic policy. Proceedings 
of the Supreme War Direction Council, op. cit. Part II: Summary of Statement by the Deputy-Chief of Army 
General Staff. 
688

[689면]
Honshu as early as September. In either 
case, the Navy would have difficulty in assembling sufficient strength, and it conseguently 
was improbable that a large proportion of the 
invading force could be destroyed by attack 
operations prior to landing. This proportion 
would increase the later the invasion came, but 
only if the production of special attack weap ~ ns 
and especially of aviation fuel could be maintained in spite of enemy bombings." 
In the light of these High Command 
statements and the reports already presented 
to the Council, the ensuing discussion of the 
policy draft itself centered on two critical 
guestions; first, whether there was hope of 
keeping Soviet Russia out of the war by 
diplomatic action; and second , whether it 
would be possible to keep war production at a 
sufficient level to assure reasonable prospects 
of successfully opposing an enemy invasion. 
On both these points, Foreign Minister Togo 
expressed serious doubt. " 
Reminding the Council that in wartime 
strong diplomacy was contingent upon military 
victories, Togo declared that the war situation 
was so highly unfavorable to Japan that no 
success whatever could be expected in efforts 
to win positive Soviet friendship . He acknowledged that some hope remained of keeping 
Russia from actIvely entering the war against 
Japan , but he emphasized that even this hope 
would become tenuous unless Japan's fighting 
strength could be maintained at a sufficiently 
high level to convince the Russians that there 
was only a slight probability of an early and 
certain Allied victory. 
Togo was no less pessimistic with regard to 
the possibility of keeping the nation's war 
strength up to the reguired level. Production, 
he stated, could hardly be augmented in the 
face of steadily intensifying enemy air operations 
against the homeland. On the contrary, there 
was grave danger that it would decline still 
further unless the enemy air superiority could 
be overcome . 
Togo's stand, however , failed to gain any 
support from others . The Premier, in fact, 
displayed a firm attitude throughout the 
deliberations 8, and persuaded Togo to agree to 
the Council's adoption of the basic policy in 
view of prevailing circumstances. Admiral Y 0nai [or the most part remained silent. 8' On 
the other hand , Munitions Minister Teijiro 
Toyoda , who had been specially summoned to 
attend the meeting, bolstered the case for adoption by stating that it might be possible to 
79 Admiral Toyada's remarks at the 6 June meeting were more pessimist ic than his statement at the subsequent 
Imperial conference, which was redrafted between the two meetings. In the absence of any record of his 6 June statement 
as actually presented before the Council, its general contents are summarized from the draft materials prepared in the 
Navy General Staff and submitted to Toyada to be used as a basis for his statement. Ibid ., Summary of scatemen[ by 
the Chief of Navy General Staff. 
80 According to statements made by Togo after the war, he had not been notified of the contents of the basic 
policy draft before attending the 6 June meeting, although it was customary for the Council secretaries to circulate such 
documents to all members of the Council in advance of [he meeting at which they were to be discussed. In this case, 
it appears that Togo was the only member who had not seen the policy draft in advance. He states: (I When the 
conference got under way, I was surprised to discover that a very strongly-worded resolution to continue the war was being 
brought up for debate . ... The whole thing was a surprise to me." (Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously 
cited. ) 
8t The council deliber ated on the question of evacuating the capital near the end of the conference. Premier 
Suzuk i, on this point, strongly contended that the capital must be defended to the last. Proceedings of the Supreme 
War Direction Council, op. cit. Part II. 
82 The draft policy had been submitted to Yonai before the 6 June meeting by Vice Adm. Hoshina, Chief of 
the Naval Affairs Bureau of the Navy Ministry and one of the secretaries of the Supreme War Direction Council. 
According to Hoshina, Yonai at this time paid little attention to the draft. (Statement by Vice Adm. Hoshina, 
previously cited.) 
689

[690면]
Should Ihm b. air raids, 
Thq wi/l nol b. inl<ndd for dtstroying our Hom.land, 
But 'Will be aimed to strike 41 our moralt . 
Ar< "" to I" lhem d.moraliz, OUr Y AMATO fighting spirit? 
PLATE NO. r64 
Morale Poster

[691면]
maintain war production at the required level if 
determined steps were taken to boost working 
morale, ensure greater coordination, and especially to strengthen the protection of land 
and sea transportation against air attack_·
j 
No further opinions were put forward 
in regard to the fundamental issue. The 
Council, which had been in session the greater 
part of the day, approved a minor change in 
the wording of the basic policy and then 
adopted it unanimously to conclude the deliberations." This decision was ratified by the 
Cabinet on 7 June, and on the 8th the Council 
reconvened in the presence of the Emperor to 
finalize its action. 
The proceedings of the Imperial conference 
were rigidly formal. Whereas there had been 
some spontaneous discussion on 6 June, the 
meeting before the Emperor followed a predetermined pattern. Most of the statements 
were prepared in advance and designed to fit 
in with the decision which the conference would 
automatically take to adopt the basic policy. 
As on 6 June, the proceedings began with 
presentation of the reports on the national 
strength and world situation. The body of 
these reports remained unchanged, except for 
a few revisions In the conclusions. The statements of the High Command representatives 
followed. Lt. Gen. Kawabe, again attending 
in place of General Umezu, read the same 
statement which he had made on 6 June. 
However, the remarks of the Chief of Navy 
General Staff, Admiral Toyoda, had been 
redrafted for the Imperial conference and were 
noticeably more optimistic. Although again 
emphasizing that the Navy's efkctiveness 
depended upon the maintenance of war production, Toyoda expressed confidence that close to 
one-half of an enemy invasion force could be 
destroyed on the water in the event of an early 
assault on the Homeland, and that the rate of 
destruction would Increase the later the 
assault came." 
Following statements by the Munitions and 
Agriculture Ministers, Foreign Minister Togo 
briefly addressed the conference. In contrast 
to his outspokenly critical attitude at the 6 
June meeting, Togo on this occasion read a 
restrained statement which reiterated the pessimistic outlook for negotiations with Russia but 
avoided any clear-cut expression of opposition 
83 In the absence of detailed official records covering the 6 June meeting of the Supreme Wu Direction Council, 
the discussions on the basic policy draft arc summarized on the basis of the following sources: (I) Original Notes 
talcen by Admiral Soemu Toyoda , Chief of Navy General Staff, at 6 June meeting. Proceedings of the Supreme War. 
Direction Council, op. cit. Part I : Official Summary of Statement by the Munitions Minister at 8 June Council Meeting; and Pact II. (The Mun itions Minister 's remarks at both 6 and 8 June meetings were substantially the same.) 
(2) Statements by Foreign Minister Togo, Chief Cabinet Secretary Salc.omizu, Lt. Gen. Yoshizumi, Vice Adm. 
Hoshina, all previously cited. 
84 The opening statement of general policy was amended to read : " On the strength of its advantageous geographical position and the undying loyalty and solidarity of its people, (the Empire) will prosecute the war to the end in 
order to preserve the national polity and protect the Imperial homeland, thereby accomplishing the objtctiyts of the war." 
The italicized passage was substituted for the words" securing the foundations for the future development of the race." 
J'\.ccording to the recollection of Foreign Mini.ster Togo, the change was made because the original phrasing was thought 
swceptable to misinterpretation. (I) Proceedings of the Supreme War Direction Council, op. cit. Part I: Basic Policy 
for Future Direction of the War. (2) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo , previously cited. 
8:; As redrafted in the Navy General Staff, Admiral Toyoda's statement contained the estimate that 60 to 70 per 
cent of an enemy invasion force would be able to effect a landing if the invasion attempt were made at an eady date. In 
delivering the statement at the Imperial conference, however, Toyoda modified this passage to state that close to half of 
the enemy invasion force could be destroyed before landing. (I) Summary of statement by the Chief of Navy General 
Staff, Imperial conference, 8}un 4:;, with pencilled corrections made by Toyoda. Proceedings of the Supreme War 
Direction Council, op. cit. Part II. (2) Statement by Admiral Toyoda, previously cited. 
691

[692면]
to the basic policy. Baron Hiranuma, President of the Privy Council, then spoke, after 
which the basic policy was formally read and 
adopted without further discussion." 
Concluding the conference, Premier Suzuki 
declared: 
The Go>ernment and the High Command, acting 
in closest unity, will henceforth stri'Ye to CdTTY into 
effect the terms of the Basic Policy for Future Direction of the War here adopted. Horve"Yer, it is clear 
from today's discussiom thdt extrdordi1r.dry effort on 
both sides is an absolute prerequisite for the effectuation of this policy. 
For its part, the High Command is requested to 
ensure real unity between the Army and Na.y so that 
maximum effecti'e7Ies5 may be realized through fully 
coordi71ated military operations. At the same time, 
011 the GOl'ernment's side, all members of the Cabinet 
pledge full determination literally to sacrifice their 
li>es jor the purpose of carrying out the policy, i" 
particular Items 2 a"d 3. (Cf. pp. 640-') 
The pment situation of the Empire is truly 
perilous. ["deed, [ thi"k it ca" be said that we as a 
,wion are struggling for life in the >ery jaws of 
death. This situation ca""ot be met by imelligence 
or ingenuity alone. There is but one course, to 
dri.e straight ahead without faltering toward the 
objecti." in which we belie.e. [hereby affirm the 
GCIl'emment's resolve to do this. 
Throughout the conference the Emperor had 
remained silent in strict accordance with constitutional custom. After Premier Suzuki's final 
words of exhortation, he quietly rose and left 
the conference chamber to bring the meeting 
to a close.'" Those attending the conference, 
realizing that they were the cause of deep concern on the part of the Emperor, were overwhelmed with awe. 
Emperor's Initiative 
The basic policy decision evoked its strongest 
and most significant repercussion in the inner 
circle of the Court. Just before the Imperial 
conference met, Marquis Kido, the Emperor's 
closest advisor, obtained access to the conference documents and decided, in view of the basic 
policy's unequivocal reiteration of intent to fight 
on, that the only hope of swinging the High 
Command and Government toward peace lay in 
attaining direct Imperial intervention. On 8 
June, the same day that the Imperial conference 
formally adopted the basic policy, Kido drew 
up for submission to the Emperor a vital plan 
of action for peace embodying this central idea. 
The plan, which Kido cautiously entitled 
"A Draft Plan of Countermeasures to Meet 
the Situation", was prefaced by an explanation 
of the reasons why he considered it imperative 
to end the war without delay. The Okinawa 
battle, he pointed out, was almost certain to end 
soon in complete defeat. Furthermore, the 
report on the national strength submitted to 
the Imperial conference in conjunction with 
the basic policy clearly indicated that it would 
become virtually impossible in the near future 
for Japan to carry on the war. 
Turning to the question of enemy strategy, 
Kido expressed fear that a continuation of mass 
86 Baron Hiranuma had not participated in the 6 June Council meeting but was invited to attend the 8 June 
conference in accordance with the customary practice of including the President of the Privy Council in important Imperial 
conferences. In his statement at the meeting Hiranuma emphaSized the importance of the nation's morale and concluded 
that every effort should be made to bring the war to a successful conclusion banning any idea of peace. The Agriculture 
and Commerce Minister also was specially included in the Imperial conference in order to make a statement concerning 
the food situation . 
87 The account of the Imperial conference proceedings is based on an official summary, classified H National 
Top.Secret," which was drawn up for distribution to a highly restricted number of key officials. It includes the principal 
statements made at the conference but not those of the High Command. Proceedings of the Supreme War Direction 
Councll, 0p. cit. Part I. 
692 
,

[693면]
air attacks with incendiary bombs would" make 
a holocaust" of towns and villages throughout 
the country. Along with the destruction of 
their homes, people would lose their food stocks 
and clothing . Social unrest of alarming pro· 
portions would become inevitable with the 
advent of winter, and there was grave danger 
that the situation might get out of control. 
Kido's plan continued: 88 
From the .iewpoint ret forth dbo .. , I comider thdt 
it is essential for Japa" to make a resolute mO)le to 
terminate hostilities and res/ore peace. By what 
methods dnd steps, then, should this objecti>e be dttdined? This problem cdlls for the most cdreful 
consideration. 
In the light of "arious announcements, speeches 
dnd drtides publicized by the enemy dS pdrt of d Pedce 
ojfensi'JIe, it is almost certain that the major enemy 
objecti>e is the o .. rthrow of the so-cdlled gumbdtsu, 
or militarist clique, in this coulItry. Consequently, 
I belie .. thdt the proper Oldy to stdrt pedce negotidtions 
would be for the fighting se"ices to propose pedce initidily, dnd for the Go>emment then to decide on d 
peace plan and open negotiations. HO'We'Ver, in the 
light of actual conditions in Japan, such act jon is 'Virtudfly impossible dt thisjuncture. Furthermore, if we wdit 
for an opportunity to ripen for such action, it may 
come too Idte, d.id JdPdll mdY shdre the fdte of Germany, making it impossible to secure e')len OUT minimum demdnds: the s4egUdrdin8 of the lmperidl 
fdmily dnd the preseT>dtion of the ndtiondl polity. 
Although it wifl be d depdrture from PdSt precedent 
and a course which 'We can contemplate 07lly with dTVe 
d.id trepiddtion, I beli .. e thdt ihere is no course left 
for us but to peb"'ion for Imperial intervention for the 
Sdke of the people dnd tdke steps to end hostilities d,id 
restore pedce in d<corddnce with the fo/lowing policy: 
I. NegotidtiollS wi/l be opened with dn intermediary power iu pursuance of a personal message by the 
Emperor. If it were possible to do 50, it might be 
wije to open direct peace negotiations with the Uujted 
Statesa71iBritain. Howe'ller, it seems more ad'llisable, 
in 'IIjew of SO'lliet Russia's neutrality toward Japan, to 
dsk thdl country 10 medidte betweell Jdpdll dlid the 
A/li" so dj to dllow some Idtitude to Jdpdll. 
2. The keynote of the Emperor's personal mesSdge will follow thdt of the Imperidl Rescript on the 
declaration of war, emphasizing His Majesty's constant concern for peace a,u:! his decision to terminate 
hostilities ou broad terms in "jew of war ra'llages a1rd 
for the sdke of world pedee, by bedrillg the unbedTdble. 
3. Defiuition of peace terms: HO ~Jora bl e peace 
(it mdY be ille>itdble thdt this will be the minimum 
term.) 111 .iew of the object of Jdpdn·s declardtioll 
of war, if a guarantee is obtained that the Pacific will 
be made true to its name, Japan will renounce her 
right of o<cupdlion dnd cldim to leddership O>er those 
areas now under her occupation, prollided 0111'1 that 
the ndtions dnd peoples of these dred! ditdill i.idependetlce. Japan, on her own initiatille, will withdra'1l her 
armed forces from the occupied areas. (In this case, 
some }dpalleSe forces mdY be compefled 10 dbdlldon 
their drms on the spot, but this question mdy be left to 
future negotiation.) 
4. Jdpall must be prepdred to carry out d hed.Y 
reductioll of drmdments, which will be demdnded of 
her. There will be no alterndti>e but to be content 
with the minimum armament required of national 
defense. 
These dre my perso'ldl opinions which I hd>e Cdndidly expressed. The pldn cOlltdins only essentid 
points. It goes without Sdying thdt the terms of lIegotidlion dlid other mdtters will hd>e to be ddjusted 
on the basis of the "jews of experts in "arious quarters. 
On 9 June Kido laid his plan before the 
Emperor. His Majesty had been profoundly 
distressed over the decision taken by the Imperial conference the preceding day and considered 
it illogical and inconsistent with the admittedly 
serious situation of the national strength." 
After listening to Kido's plan, the Emperor 
gave his full approval and instructed Kido to 
enter into immediate consultations with the 
Premier and the War , Navy, and Foreign 
88 Kido Diary, op. cit. Entry for 8 Jun 45, appended pages entitled Jikyoku Shushu Taisaku Shian II\l'fiM1ct.l' 
I'm!it~ (Draft Plan of Countermeasures to Meet the Situation.) 
89 Statement by Marquis Matsudaira, previously cited. 
693

[694면]
Ministers with a view to its realization. The 
Diet had already begun its special session, 
however, and Kido was unable to confer with 
the four Government leaders until its adjournment four days later.90 
As Navy Minister Y onai had predicted, 
extreme war sentiment dominated the Diet 
session. In his opening speech, Premier Suzuki alluded to a statement he had made at 
San Francisco in 1918 to the effect that 
the United States and Japan would surely 
suffer " the punishment of Heaven" if they 
ever made the Pacific the scene of war." Premier Suzuki's speech immediately led to hostile 
discussion among various members of the Lower 
House. Ultra-rightist members acting in collusion with certain Army elements seized upon 
Premier Suzuki's speech as a pretext for launching an attempt to discredit the Cabinet. The 
situation quieted after War Minister Anami 
had warned his subordinates against further 
involvement m anti-Government activity." 
After this brief but significant flurry, the Diet 
passed the emergency war measures and 
adjourned on 13 June. 
While the Diet was in session, the Emperor's 
concern for an early peace was heightened by 
two highly authoritative reports on the military 
situation. General Umezu, Chief of the Army 
General Staff, returned to Tokyo from his official mission to Dairen immediately after the 
Imperial conference of 8 June and, on the 9th , 
made a pessimistic report to the Emperor concerning the military outlook on the continent." 
Three days later, an equally gloomy report was 
presented to His Majesty by Admiral Kiyoshi 
Hasegawa , Special Naval Inspector, whom the 
Emperor had entrusted with the inspection of 
special attack forces for the homeland battle." 
These reports, which the Emperor communicated in substance to Marquis Kido, spurred 
the latter to act swiftly on his peace plan as 
soon as the Diet adjourned on 13 June. Kido 
the same day had separate conversations with 
Premier Suzuki and Navy Minister Y onai, to 
both of whom he disclosed his plan. Y onai 
expressed full readiness to support the plan on 
the condition that Suzuki, as head of the Cabinet, would do likewise. The Premier, though 
asking for a little time to consider, also 
go Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 31 , 1,}1-2. 
91 Kampa 1t*fl: (Official Gazette) Special Issue, 9 Jun 45, containing Stenographic Record of Proceedings of the 
House of Repr esentat ives, 87th Diet. (2) Premier Suzuki insisted upon retaining this particular passage in his speech 
despite the fact that most members of the Cabinet strongly advised him to leave it out. According to State Minister 
Sakon ji, Suzuki wished to hint that /I an unreasonable war is not good" and ought to be terminated speedily through me 
efforts of bom sides. (Statement by Vice Adm. Sakonji, previously cited.) 
92 In view of widespread rumors that the Army was behind the anti-Government move in the Diet, Chief Cabinet 
Secretary Sakomizu, after the dose of the session, sought and obtained assurances from Lt. Gen. Y oshizumi, Chief of 
the Military Affairs Bureau of the War Mini stry, that the Army intended to continue its support of the Cabinet. (Statement by Lt. Gen . Yoshizumi , previously cited.) 
93 General Umezu acknowledged to the Emperor that the combined strength of the Japanese forces in Manchuria 
was barely adequate to meet an eventual attack on the Continent, and that ammunition reserves would be exhausted in 
one major action. This revelation, though applicable to the situation on the Continent, had a marked influence on the 
Emperor's estimate of the prospects for the homeland battle since he was convinced that the troops in Japan Proper were 
far inferior in training and equipment to those on the Continent . ([) Memorandum note s of Rear Adm . Takagi, op. 
cit., (Conversation with Marquis Matsudaira , Chief Secretary to the Lord Privy Seal, in which Matsudaira disclosed 
the nature of Umezu's report to the Emperor and His Majesty's reaction, 14Jun 45.) (2) Matsudaira learned tht. 
details of Umezu's report from Marquis Kido shortly aher the Emperor's audience with Umezu on 9 June and later 
obtained the same information directly from the Emperor. (Statement by Marquis Matsudaira, previously cited.) 
94 Statement by Admiral Kiyoshi Hasegawa, Special Naval Inspector, Feb--Aug 45. 
694

[695면]
expressed general agreement and assured Kido 
that he would do his best to put the plan into 
effect.'" 
Kido next outlined his ideas to Foreign Minister Togo in an interview on 15 June. H , explained that he had already obtained the Emperor's full approval and asked Togo to draw 
up without delay a definite and detailed plan. 
The Foreign Minister replied that he was in 
general accord with Kido's proposals, pointing 
out at the same time that efforts were already 
underway with a view to securing eventual 
Soviet mediation. Togo was surprised to discover that neither Kido nor the Emperor 
had been informed of the decisions reached at 
the six leaders' conferences in mid-May with 
respect to diplomatic action toward Russia." 
The Foreign Minister promptly brought 
Kido up to date on these developments and 
informed him that, although the six leaders 
had agreed to defer mediation until the Soviet 
attitude had first been sounded out and some 
agreement had been reached on the Japanese 
side regarding peace terms I he (Togo ) and 
Navy Minister Y onai both felt that it was now 
high time to press for action. He told Kido 
that he and Y onai had agreed, in a talk on 13 
June, to take up the matter with Premier Suzuki and War Minister Anami. Togo emphasized, however, that the Government was 
in an extremely awkward positon because of the 
one-sided basic policy adopted at the Imperial 
conference on 8 June. Kido replied that he 
was fully aware of this and would do what he 
could to facilitate matters." 
Immediately after his talk with Kido, Foreign 
Minister Togo again conferred with Y onai. 
The Navy Minister informed Togo that he 
had spoken to Premier Suzuki regarding steps 
to press the mediation issue and that the 
Premier had agreed. Suzuki had confided in 
him , Yonai told Togo, that he thought the 
Foreign Minister himself should be sent to 
Moscow to conduct negotiations with the Soviet Government." 
The Army's attitude, however, still remained 
unknown . War Minister Anami was out of 
Tokyo on an inspection tour, and it was not 
until 18 June, following his return, that Marquis Kido was able to sound out his views. 
The War Minister, after listening to Kido's 
proposals, agreed in general that the situation 
was serious but insisted that it was necessary 
to wage the homeland battle and inflict heavy 
losses on the enemy before initiating peace action. Kido, on the other hand, said he could 
see little hope of success in the defense of the 
homeland and strongly emphasized the Emperor's fear that such a course would finally result 
in laying waste the entire country and sacrificing 
the national polity itself. Anami, however, 
remained non-committal." 
Meanwhile, Premier Suzuki had decided to 
call a restricted meeting of the six Supreme 
9' (I) Affidavit of ICido, op. ck, IMTFE Record, pp. 3','H-' . (2) Statement by Marquis ICido, previously 
cited. (3) Memorandum notes of Rear Adm. Takag i, op. cit., (Conversation with Admiral Yonai regarding consultation 
with Kido, dated '4}un 4'. \ 
¢ It had been agreed at the time of the mid-May conferences that Premier Suzuki would report to the Throne 
on the decisions taken. Asked by Togo following his conversation with Kido on 15 June whether he had made such a 
report, the Premier admitted that he had neglected to do so. (Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited.) 
97 (,) Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 3"'55-6. (2) Statement by Marquis Kido, previously 
dted. (3) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 9. 
gB Togo Memoirs, op. cit., pp. 9"'"10. 
99 In the course of this conversation, Anami significantly cautioned Kido that certain Army elements were 
suspicious that ICido was working for peace and were tallcing of his removal. (I) Affidavit of ICido, op. cit. IMTFE 
Record, PP' 31,156-8. (2) Statement by MarqUIS Kido, previously cited. 
695

[696면]
War Direction Council members for the purpose of reopening discussions on peace. The 
meeting took place in the evening of ,8 June. 
War Minister Anami and the Chiefs of the 
Army and Navy General Staffs unitedly maintained that Japan must keep on fighting as long 
as the enemy insisted upon unconditional surrender, and argued that there would be better 
chances of securing a moderation of the enemy's 
terms if the homeland battle were fought and 
heavy losses inflicted on the invading forces. 
Nevertheless, under advice rom Suzuki , Togo 
and Y onai, the War Minister and High Command leaders finally agreed to an immediate 
acceleration of the negotiations with Russia in 
an effort to obtain Soviet mediation for a peace 
settlement on acceptable terms.' ~ 
Foreign Minister Togo communicated this 
decision the following day to Mr. Hirota, who 
was still awaiting a response from Soviet Ambassador Malik to his initial proposals made 
on 3-4 June. Togo urged Hirota to seize the 
first opportunity to resume conversations with 
Malik and to ascertain, if possible, the Soviet 
attitude toward mediating between Japan and 
the Allies on the basis of terms more favorable 
than unconditional surrender. '0' 
On 20 June Togo reported directly to the 
Emperor on the steps taken to pave the way 
for Soviet mediation, while Premier Suzuki 
informed Kido of the outcome of the six leaders' 
conference on the ,8th.'~ Although a good 
start had been made, Kido felt that, to clinch 
the reorientation of policy toward peace, it was 
advisable for the Emperor to summon the six 
leaders to an Imperial conference and directly 
command them to speed diplomatic peace efforts. Kido submitted his opinion to the Emperor on the afternoon of 20 June, and the 
conference was called two days later.'o, 
At the Imperial conference of 22 June, the 
Emperor boldly took the initiative. Pointing 
out that Japan was already experiencing extreme difficulty in carrying on the war owing to 
the critical military and domestic situation , he 
expressed fear that these difficulties would 
steadily become greater under intensified enemy 
air attacks. He therefore urged the Government and the High Command not to limit 
their efforts to carrying out military preparations 
for the defense of the homeland as provided 
in the basic policy of 8 June, but also to 
exert all possible effort to bring the war to an 
acceptable conclusion by diplomatic means. 
His Majesty then invited the opinions of the 
six leaders. 
Premier Suzuki promptly acknowledged 
the extreme gravity of Japan 's war situation 
and agreed with the Emperor's view that 
every effort should be made to bring about a 
diplomatic peace settlement at the same time 
that preparations were continued to defend the 
homeland. Navy Minister Y onai and Foreign 
Minister Togo seconded the Premier's remarks. 
Y onai also insisted that every step be taken to 
induce Soviet Russia to act as a mediator between Japan and the Allies for a negotiated 
peace. Togo admitted that an approach to 
Russia involved certain dangers as well as the 
necessity of making heavy concessions, but 
he emphasized that Soviet mediation offered 
the sole hope of avoiding unconditional surrender. 
Asked to state the views of the Army High 
Command, General Umezu pointed out that 
the launching of peace proposals would have 
'00 (,) Togo Memoirs, 0p, cit., p. '0. (2) Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 31,'59-60 . 
101 Togo Memoirs , op. cit., p. 10. 
102 (I) Ibid. (2) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo , previously cited. (3) Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., 
IMTFE Record, pp. 3"'59-60. 
'03 (,) Affidavit of Kido, 0p. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 3',,60-62. (2) Statement by Marquis Kido, previously 
cited. 
696

[697면]
profound repercussions at home as well as 
abroad, and that it was consequently imperative 
to act with the utmost caution and only on the 
basis of a most thorough appraisal of all aspects 
of the situation. The Emperor pointedly queried whether Umezu meant by his statement 
that he opposed peace action. To this Umezu 
replied that he fully recognized the necessity 
for prompt diplomatic measures without awaiting the invasion of the homeland and only 
meant to stress the need for caution . No further 
opinions were offered either by War Minister 
Anami or Admiral Toyoda, Chief of the Navy 
General Staff, and the Emperor retired to end 
the conference. 'GO 
The Emperoes clear-cut expression of his 
will at the 22 June Imperial conference marked 
a decisive stride forward on the thorny road 
toward peace. For the first time since the 
formation of his Cabinet, Premier Suzuki 
felt confident that he could succeed in the 
mission entrusted to him by the Emperor. ,., 
The Government's policy, hitherto vacillating 
and indecisive, was now set definitely toward 
terminating the war by diplomatic negotiation, 
and the Army 's top leaders had committed 
themselves before the Emperor to support 
that policy. Despite this commitment , there 
was some concern in the peace group as to 
whether the Army could control its extremist 
elements. 
Negotiations with Russia 
Imperial intervention resulted in the immediate renewal of the Hirota -Malik talks, 
suspended since early June. Events, however, 
rapidly bore out Foreign Minister Togo's judgment that it would be extremely difficult to 
induce a reversal of the hostile trend in Soviet 
policy toward Japan . 
Meeting Malik on 24 June , Hirota vigorously pressed for a reply to his earlier overtures 
for a Soviet-Japanese rapprochement but was 
unable to get from the Soviet envoy anything 
more than a promise to refer to his Government any concrete proposals which might be 
advanced from the Japanese side. In the course 
of the talk, Hirota found occasion to express 
hope for the early restoration of peace in the Far 
East. Malik's reply was so curt, however, that 
any approach to the subject of mediation was 
impossible .... 
Since continuation of the talks now required 
specific prop osals on the part of the Japanese 
Government, Foreign Minister Togo handed 
Hirota on 28 June a written statement to 
transmit to Malik., proposing the conclusion 
104 The proceedings of the Imperial conference of 22 June are summarized on the basis of the following sources: 
(I) Kido Diary, op. cit. (Appended pages dated 22 }un 45, recording the Emperor's account of the Imperial 
conference as orally given to Kido immediately following the conference.) (2) Memorandum notes by Rear Adm. 
Takagi, op. cit. (Conversation with Navy Minister Mitsumasa Yonai, 23 Jun 45, in which Yonai gave an account 
of the Imperial conference proceedings.) (3) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., pp. 10-1. (4) Statements by Foreign Minister 
Togo and Admiral Toyoda, both previously cited. 
105 Premier Suzuki told Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu following the 22 June Imperial conference that he 
now felt confident that he could terminate the war. "Today," he said to Sakomizu, H the Emperor said what 
everyone has wanted to say, but yet did not dare to say." Article entitled Kofulcuji no ShinJO ~ts::~u.>Jt;ffl (Truth of 
the Surrender Period) by Hisatsune Sakomizu. Asahi Newspaper , Tokyo, 13 Jan 46. 
106 Hirota took advanlage of Malik' s reference to the return of peace between Russia and Germany to state that 
he hoped Japan might follow the Soviet example and restore peace at an early date. Malik replied that, since the 
Soviet Union was not a belligerent in the rar East, it had nothing to do with the question of peace there. Foreign 
Office Radios , op. cit., No. 843, Foreign Minister to Japanese Ambassador at Moscow , 28 Jun 45. 
697

[698면]
of a long-term Soviet-Japanese pact of mutual 
assistance and non-aggression.'" Hirota had 
earlier told Togo that he feared pressing the 
negotiations too strongly might give away 
Japan's weakness. Togo nevertheless reiterated that haste was vital under the circumstances and urged Hirota to transmit the 
Japanese proposal without delay.''' 
Acting on these instructions, Hirota handed 
the Japanese Government's written statement 
to Malik on 29 June and requested a reply at 
the earliest possible date. On 30 June Togo 
telegraphed this information to the Japanese 
Ambassador in Moscow, instructing him to 
"do the utmost" at that end to speed the 
reply of the Soviet Government . '.. The 
negotiations were now on an official government-to-government basis, but the vital question 
of Soviet mediation still had not been broached. 
The first week of July passed without any 
answer from Moscow to the preliminary Japa nese proposals. The Emperor became increasingly concerned over the delay and finally, 
acting on the advice of Marquis Kido, summoned Premier Suzuki to the Palace on 7 
July to urge that prompt steps be taken 
to bring mediation into the negotiations 
Stating that it would not do to miss the 
opportunity for peace by spending too much 
time in sounding out Soviet intentions, His 
Majesty proposed that mediation be requested 
without further delay and that a special envoy 
be dispatched to Moscow for this purpose, 
bearing a personal message from the Emperor."· 
The dispatch of a special enovy was, in fact, 
already part of the six leaders' contemplated 
plan of action. Premier Suzuki and Foreign 
Minister Togo had tentatively agreed that the 
mission should be entrusted to Prince Konoye, 
and on 7 July, prior to Suzuki's audience with 
the Emperor , Foreign Minister Togo left 
Tokyo for Karuizawa to ascertain unofficially 
whether Konoye would accept the assignment . 
In a talk with Togo on 8 July, Konoye indicated that he would undertake the mission if 
the Emperor commanded him to do so. He 
and Togo agreed that it would be best if he 
could go to Moscow with wide discretion 
as regards peace terms. 
Following his return to Tokyo, Foreign 
Minister Togo learned from the Premier on 
9 July of the Emperor's desire to speed the 
dispatch of a special emissary. It was promptly 
decided to seek the approval of the Supreme 
War Direction Council, and Premier Suzuki 
summoned the six members to a restricted 
meeting on the loth. No objection was 
encountered at the meeting. After the 
Premier communicated the Emperor's wish, 
the six leaders swiftly agreed that immediate 
steps be taken to arrange for the special mission, 
inc! uding the dispatch of a message transmitting to the Soviet Government the Imperial 
desire to end the war.''' 
Meanwhile, Moscow's silence on the Japanese proposal for a nonaggression pact remained 
unbroken. Naotake Sato, Japanese Ambassador at Moscow, was not aware that the proposal 
107 The statement said that Japan was prepared, under the proposed pact, to neutralize Manchuria upon conclusion of the East Asia war, and to relinquish ttshing rights in Siberian waters in exchange for Soviet oil. It further 
stated that Japan would discuss any other terms or conditions which the Soviet Government desired. Ibid., No. 8)3, 
30 Jun 45· 
698 
108 (1) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 12, (2) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited. 
log Foreign Office Rad~os, op. cit., No. 852, 30 Jun 45· 
"0 Affidavit of Kido, op. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 31,164-5. 
I II Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited. 
[[2 Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 13.

[699면]
was intended to pave the way for a mediation 
request, and he had refrained from pressing it 
on the ground that circumstances rendered 
rejection a practical certainty ... • For this 
failure to obey instructions , Sato was criticized 
by Foreign Minister Togo on 9 July . Togo 
cabled the Ambassador to carry out orders 
"apart from your own opinion " and reiterated 
that he must obtain an interview with Foreign 
Commissar Molotov before the latter's impending departure for the Potsdam conference 
and " try to induce the Soviet side to fall in 
with our project."'" 
Since Molotov was currently engaged in 
top· level talks with the visiting Chinese 
Premier, T. V . Soong, Sato had difficulty in 
arranging a meeting. However, after a preliminary exchange of views with Foreign 
Vice-Commissar Lozovsky on 10 July, Sato 
succeeded in obtaining a 20 minute interview 
with Molotov on the 11th. Both conversations 
got nowhere. Ambassador Sato insistently 
pressed for an indication of the Soviet attitude 
regarding the Japanese pact proposal , but 
Molotov replied that no answer could be given 
pending further careful study.'" 
Even while Sato was conferring with 
Molotov, new instructions were en route from 
Tokyo bringing the Ambassador his first knowledge that Japan was seeking to end the war 
through utilization of Soviet Russia. The 
instructions directed Sato to sound out Molotov 
speedily with this objective in view, and a 
further message dispatched by Foreign Minister 
Togo on the evening of the llth authorized 
the Ambassador to state that Japan, in connection with the terminat ion of the war, had 
"no thought of annexing or retaining the 
territories under her occupation."'" 
While Sato prepared to act on these new 
instructions, further developments took place 
in Tokyo. During the morning of the 12th, 
Premier Suzuki conveyed to the Emperor 
and Marquis Kido the Government's desire 
to send Prince Konoye to Moscow. Since 
the Prince was already on his way to 
Tokyo from Karuizawa, His Majesty decided 
to summon him to the Palace the same 
afternoon and command him to accept the 
mission if it materialized.'" 
Prince Konoye was received in audience by 
the Emperor at 1500 the same day. His 
Majesty, after obtaining a clear-cut assurance 
that Konoye agreed with him on the vital 
necessity of terminating the war, disclosed that 
he wished the Prince to go to Moscow as a 
special peace emissary. Konoye replied that 
he was prepared to sacrifice his life to carry 
out the Emperor's will. .. 8 
It still was necessary, however, to obtain 
Soviet consent to Konoye's mission. Foreign 
Minister Togo therefore dispatched an urgent 
message to Ambassador Sato on the evening 
of 12 July, instructing him to request prompt 
admittance for Prince Konoye and his suite to 
the Soviet Union and the provision of an 
official plane to transport the party from the 
Soviet-Manchurian border to Moscow. The 
Ambassador was further instructed to communicate directly to Molotov, prior to the 
impending three-Power conference, the following explanation of the Emperor's desire to 
Il3 Foreign Office Radios, op. cit., No. 1330 and No. 1331, Japanese Amba ssador at Moscow to Foreign 
Minister, 5 and 6 Jul 45. 
II4 Ibid" No. 875 and No. 884 , Foreign Minister to Japanese Ambassador at Moscow, 5 and 9 Jul 45. 
IIS Ibid., No. 1364 and ]379. Japanese Ambassador at Moscow to Foreign M inister, Xl Jui 45. 
116 Ibid" No. B90 and No. SslI , Foreign Minister to Japanese Ambassador at Moscow, I I Jul 45. 
"7 Kido Diary, op. cit., IMTFE Record, pp. 3I,I66~. 
lIS Ibid., (Entry for 12 Jul 45. appended pages covering Emperor's audience with Prince Konoye.) IMTFE 
Record, pp. 31,170-71. 
699

[700면]
terminate the war: "9 
His Majesty the Emperor of Japan, being solicitous 
of the increasing hardships and war-suffering imposed 
on the belligeTe1lt nations, desires that the war should 
promptly be brought to an end_ So long as Britain 
and the United States adhere to their demand for 
Japan's unconditional surrender in the Greater East 
Asia War, Japan has no altematiYe but to fight on 
at all costs for the honor and self-preser>ation of the 
n"1tion. Howe'Per, it is far from our des£re to see 
further bloodshed by the belligerent nations on this 
account. His Majesty hopes to restore peace as 
Jj>eedily as possible for the sake of the happiness of 
mankind_ . __ He intends to dispatch Prince Konoye 
as his special en"l'0Y to the SOl'iet Uniou, bearing a 
personal message which will con"y his wishes to the 
abol'e effect. 
Ambassador Sato, immediately upon receiving this message on '3 July, requested a further 
interview with Molotov. The latter, however, 
replied that his impending departure for the 
three- Power conference made a meeting impossible, and he advised Sato to see Lozovsky 
instead. Sato therefore called on the Foreign 
Vice-Commissar at '700 the same day and 
handed him a written statement of the 
Emperor's wish to terminate the war together 
with a confidential note for transmittal to 
Molotov, requesting the Soviet Government's 
assent to the Konoye mission. Lozovsky 
assured Sato that he would immediately 
transmit both documents to Molotov, but he 
stated that it would be practically impossible 
to make a reply prior to Molotov's departure-'~ 
Stalin and Molotov left Moscow for the 
Potsdam conference on the afternoon of '4 
July, nearly twenty-four hours after Ambassador 
Sato had handed the documents relative to 
Prince Konoye's mIssIon to Foreign ViceCommissar Lozovsky. Consequently, despite 
Sato's failure to see Molotov directly, it was 
considered certain in Tokyo that the Soviet 
leaders went to the tripartite talks with knowledge of the Emperor's desire to dispatch a 
peace mission to Moscow. 111 
On the '4th, a further meeting of only the 
six Supreme War Direction Council members 
was held. Premier Suzuki disclosed the 
Emperor's decision to entrust the Moscow 
mission to Prince Konoye, and Foreign Minister Togo explained the steps already taken to 
obtain the consent of the Soviet Government. 
It was swiftly agreed that Konoye should be 
accompanied by the Vice Minister of Foreign 
Affairs and by a general and an admiral 
representing the High Command, but on the 
question of peace terms the discussions again 
reached a deadlock. War Minister Anami 
repeated his contention that the terms must be 
based on the fact that Japan, from a territorial 
viewpoint, was still far from defeated. Togo 
and Navy Minister Y onai argued on the 
contrary that the probable future development 
of the military situation must be taken into 
account. Since no agreement seemed possible, 
the final decision on terms was deferred until 
Konoye actually reached Moscow and began 
the mediation parleys. on 
The Soviet Government, however, appeared 
no more eager to respond to the proposal for 
Konoye's mission than to the earlier overture 
for nonaggression pact. For five days after 
the communication of this proposal to Lozovsky 
on the '3 th, there was complete silence. Then, 
on the evening of ,8 July, Lozovsky finally 
119 Foreign Office Radios, op. cit., No. ~3J Foreign Minister to Japanese Ambassador at Moscow, 12 Jui 45. 
120 Ibid., No. 1385, Japanese Ambassador at Moscow to Foreign Minister, 13 Jul 45. 
121 Foreign Minister Togo reported to the Emperor on 18 July that he was confident that His Majesty's peace 
intentions had been transmitted to Stalin and Molotov before their departure from Moscow. The Emperor expressed 
satisfaction. Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 16. 
122 (I) Ibid., p. '5. (2) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited. 
700

[701면]
handed Ambassador Sato a note which stated 
that the Soviet Government could give no 
definite reply because the statement of the 
Emperor's desire for peace contained no concrete proposal and because the nature of Prince 
Konoye's mission was not sufficiently clear. '" 
Ambassador Sato's radio reporting the 
contents of the Soviet note did not reach 
the Tokyo Foreign Office until the morning 
of 20 July . On the 21st, Foreign Minister 
Togo telegraphed back a reply for transmission 
to Lozovsky, stating that Prince Konoye's 
mission was to request the good offices of the 
Soviet Government for bringing the war to an 
end in accordance with the Emperor's wishes, 
to convey the concrete intentions of the 
Japanese Government in this connection , and 
to negotiate on matters relative to the establishment of cooperative relations between Japan 
and the Soviet Union. A separate message 
addressed to Sato explained that while Japan 
could not accept unconditional surrender under 
any circumstances, she desired , through Soviet 
good offices, to secure a peace settlement short 
of unconditional surrender. The message 
further stated that the Japanese Government 
could not immediately proffer concrete peace 
terms owing to the delicate situation, but that 
Prince Konoye would clarify Japan's intentions 
when he reached Moscow and would also give 
"full consideration to RUSSian demands in 
East Asia." ,,. 
The Japanese note clarifying Konoye's 
mission was communicated to Lozovsky by 
Ambassador Sato on 25 July . In dispatches 
to Foreign Minister Togo the same day, Sato 
stated that Lozovsky appeared deeply impressed 
by Japan's appeal for the good offices of the 
Soviet Government and promised to communicate the Russian reply as soon as it was 
available.'" 
The report of this interview was barely in 
the hands of the Tokyo Foreign Office when 
a startling development upset the Japanese 
plans. From Potsdam, where Stalin and 
Molotov were still conferring with the leaders 
of the British and American Governments, 
came the announcement of the Three-Power 
Anglo-American-Chines e D eclaration of 26 
July , stating the terms which Japan m:.rst accept 
in order to obtain peace. 
The Potsdam Declaration 
The Three-Power Declaration was picked up 
by official radio monitoring stations in Tokyo 
at about 0600 on 27 July . It stated: '" 
We, the President of the United Stater, the 
Presideut of the National GOYernmetit of the Republic 
of Chirl4, and the Prime Minister of Great Britain, 
reprereuting the hundreds of millions of our countrymen, haY< conferred and agreed that Japan shall be 
giY<n an opportunity to end this war. 
The prodigious land, sea and air forcer of the 
United Stater, the British Empire and of Chilla, 
many times reinforced by their armieJ and air fleets 
from the wert, are poised to strike the final blowl 
UpOIl Japan. Thil military power il sustained and 
illspired by the determinatioll of all the Allied Natiolls 
to prosecute the war against Japan until she ceases to 
resist. 
The resuit of the futile and senselm German remtance to the might of the aroused free peoples of 
the world ltands forth in awful clarity as an example 
to the people of Japall. The might that 1I0W con.erges on Japall is immeasurably greater than thai 
which, when applied to th e resisting Na{is, lIecmarily 
123 Foreign Office Radios, op. dt., No. 1417, Japanese Ambassador at Moscow to Foreign Minister, 19 Jul 45. 
124 Ibid., No. 931 and No. 932, F'oreign Minister co Japanese Ambassador at Moscow, 21 Jut 45. 
125 Ibid" No. 1449 and No. 1450, Japanese Ambassador at Moscow to Foreign Minister, 25 Jui 45. 
126 U. S. Department of State PubLication No. 2423, The Axis in Dif,at, pp. 27-9. 
701

[702면]
laid waste to the lands, the industry and the method 
of life of the whole German people. The full application of our military power, backed by our resol>e, 
will mean the itle.itable and complete destruction of 
the Japanese armed forces and just as in .. itably the 
utter de>astatiotl of the Japanese homelatld. 
The time has come for Japan to decide whether 
she will cOfltitlue to be controlled by these self-willed 
militaristic adll;sers whose unintelligent calculah·ons 
ha>e brought the Empire of Japatl to the threshold 
of atlnihilatiotl, or whether she will follow the path 
of reaso1l. 
Following are our terms. We will tlot de>iate 
from them. There are no alternati.". We shall 
brook no delay. 
There must be eliminated for all time the authority 
atld itlftuenee of those who ha>e decei>ed atld misled 
the people of Japan into embarking on world cotlquest, 
fOT we insist that a new order of peace, security and 
justice will be impossible until irrespotlsible militarism 
is dri>en from the world. 
Utltil such a tleW order is established atld utltil 
there is cotl>incitlg proof that Japan's war-making 
power is destroyed, poitlls itl Japanese territory to be 
designated by the Allies shall be occupied to secure 
the achie>ement of the basic objecti.es we are here 
settitlg forth. 
The terms of the Cairo Declaration shall be carried 
out, and Japanese so.ereignty shall be limited to the 
islands of Honshu, Hokkaido Kyushu, Shikoku and 
such minor islands as we determine. 
The Japanese military forces, after beitlg completely disarmed, shall be permitted to return to their 
homes with the opportutlity to lead peaceful atld producti>e ii.es. 
We do tlot itltend that the Japanese shall be ensla1led as a race or destroyed as a Mhon, but sterr, 
justice shall be meted out to all war crimitlals, itleluding those who haYf 'Yisited cruelties upon OUT prisoners. , 
The Japanese Go>ernment shall remo .. all obstacles 
to the re>i.al and strengthening of democratic tendencies amotlg the Japanese people. Freedom of speech, 
of religion and of thought, as well as respect for the 
fundamental human rights, shall be established. 
Japan shall be permitted to maintain such itulustries as will Iustain her economy aud permit the exactiOtl of just reparations in kitul, but tlot those which 
would enable her to re-arm for war. To this end, 
access to, as distinguished from control of, raw materials shall be permitted. 
The occupying forces of the Allies shall be 
withdrawtl from Japatl as soon as these objecti.es ha>e 
beetl accomplished atul there has been established, in 
accordance with the freely expressed will of the Japatlese people, a peacefully inclitled and responsible 
government. 
We tall upon the Government of Japan to proclaim now the unconditional surretlder of all the Japanese armed forces, atulto provide proper and adequate 
assurance of their good faith in such action. The 
alternati>e for Japan is prompt and utter destruction. 
Receipt of the Three-Power Declaration 
touched off a flurry of intense official activity. 
Foreign office experts immediately began 
translating and analyzing its contents, their 
attention promptly focussing on two highly 
significant facts. The first was that the 
Soviet Government, although almost certainly 
consulted at Potsdam regarding issuance of 
the declaration, remained non-party to it, 
thereby preserving Russia's legal neutrality in 
the Pacific war. The second was that the 
issuing Powers-the United States, Britain 
and China-abandoned their previous insistence upon unconditional surrender pure and 
simple and, instead, laid down eight specific 
conditions for a peace settlement with Japan. 
The term" unconditional surrender" appeared 
only once in the document and was specifically 
limited in application to " the Japanese armed 
forces." 127 
The fact that the Three-Powers, presumably 
127 Foreign Olliee Radios, op. eir., Bei-ei-,hi Potsudamu Sengen no Kento *1f~Ai:Y !J." k 1r1'tcv~M Study of the 
Anglo-American-Chinese Declaration at Potsdam) Treaty Bureau, Foreign Ministry, 9 Aug 45. (Though dated 9 August, 
this study was begun immediately after receipt of the declaration on 27 July.) 
7rt2

[703면]
informed by the Russians of Japan's desire to 
end the war, had proffered certain peace conditions instead of demanding blanket unconditional surrender immediately impressed 
Foreign Minister Togo as of paramount 
importance . The conditions were unquestionably severe, particularly with regard to 
the reduction of Japanese territories, but Togo 
was not surprised in view of Japan's war 
situation. Moreover, while the Allies stated 
that they would not deviate from these terms, 
Togo believed that if the Soviet Government 
finally agreed to Japan's mediation request, it 
would be possible at least to negotiate through 
Russia to assure that the Potsdam terms 
would be interpreted in the most fitvorable 
way for Japan. It was therefore essential, first, 
not to reject the Allied declaration, which 
would at once close the door to further peace 
negotiations, and second, to await Russia's 
final answer on the Konoye mission. ". 
Premier Suzula promptly concurred in these 
views. '29 
Having won the Premier's concurrence, 
Foreign Minister Togo proceeded to the Palace 
at about 1030, less than five hours after 
the receipt of the Three-Power Declaration, 
and reported on its contents directly to the 
Emperor and to Marquis Kido. In his report 
to the Emperor, Togo stated the opmion that 
rejection of the declaration would "invite 
serious consequences" and that, since an 
approach had already been made to the Soviet 
Government for the purpose of ending the war, 
no action on the declaration should be taken 
until the Soviet attitude was ascertained. ". 
Immediately following Togo's audience with 
the Emperor, the six leaders of the Supreme 
War Direction Council met in an urgent and 
restricted sesSlQn to decide Japan's general 
policy toward the Three- Power pronouncement. 
Togo, supported by Premier Suzuki, advocated 
the same course that he had recommended 
to the Emperor. War Minister Anami 
and the Chiefs of the Army and Navy 
General Staffs, on the other hand, argued 
that the Potsdam terms were so close to outand-out unconditional surrender that they 
allowed no basis for negotiation, and that 
prompt official rejection was necessary to obviate 
the serious effect which any display of indecision would have on the morale of the fighting 
services and people. On the latter point, 
however, the military members finally yielded, 
and it was agreed that no action should be 
taken on the declaration pending the outcome 
of the Russian negotiations.'" 
The Cabinet, meeting the same afternoon, 
debated the delicate question of how the ThreePower pronouncement should be handled domestically. Togo, who feared that immediate 
publication would put the Government in a 
position where it would be pressured into 
coming out openly against the Potsdam terms, 
urged withholding the declaration from the 
public for the time being. Other members of 
the Cabinet, however, argued that this would 
be unwise since the declaration had been 
broadcast throughout the world and would 
quickly leak out to the Japanese public. War 
Minister Anami urged that it was essential 
for the Government, in publishing the declaration, to repudiate it explicitly and even 
endeavor to exploit it for the purpose of boosting the fighting spirit of the nation. 
Against the War Minister's stand, Premier 
Suzuki again came out strongly in support 
of Togo's thesis that the Government should 
128 Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited. 
129 Interrogation of Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, previously cited. USSBS Interrogation No. 609, p. ,. 
x30 (x) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. X7. (2) Kido Diary, op. cit., Entry for 27 Jul 45. 
131 (1) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 17. (2) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited. 
703

[704면]
neither accept nor reject the Potsdam Declaration pending the outcome of the negotiation 
with Moscow. The Cabinet finally agreed, 
therefore, that although the declaration should 
be published , certain passages which seemed 
particularly aimed at lowering the nation's will 
to fight should be withheld, and the Government should rigidly refrain &om any official 
comment whatsoever. The press also was to 
be instructed to play down the declaration as 
far as possible. 'J' 
In practice, this compromise arrangement 
worked out very badly. The Cabinet Information Board, within which the Army and 
Navy were represented, duly instructed the 
press to publish the declaration in abridged 
form , leaving out the passages which stated 
that the Allied did not intend" that the Japanese shall be enslaved as a race or destroyed 
as a nation" and that Japanese troops , after 
being disarmed, " shall be permitted to return 
to their homes with the opportunity to lead 
peaceful and productive lives." The Board 
further barred publication of any comment 
attributed to official sources, but since it was 
feared that no mention whatever of the Government's attitude might be construed publicly 
as an indication of wavering, the press was 
authorized to report , without crediting any 
official source , that the Government appeared 
to be ignoring the Allied Declaration. '" 
This guidance was obediently followed in 
the morning editions of 28 July. The declaration was published in abridged form, and the 
newspapers reported no official comment. The 
papers themselves refrained from editorial 
comment in compliance with the directive to 
play down the declaration , but in their news 
columns they reported briefly and without 
quoting any official source that the Government 
was paying no attention to the enemy pronoucement which appeared to be a propaganda device 
designed to drive a wedge between the military 
and the Japanese people. ,,. 
This halfway treatment was far from satisfactory to Togo, but it was even more unsatisfactory to the military. On the morning 
of 28 July, when the regular Saturday information conference of the Government and 
High Command took place at the Imperial 
Palace, the War and Navy Ministers and the 
Chiefs of the Army and Navy General Staffs 
closeted themselves and again urged that 
the Government come out openly against the 
Potsdam Declaration. Subjected to this insistent pressure, Suzuki agreed to make a brief 
statement at his scheduled press conference the 
same afternoon explicitly confirming the already 
published newspaper reports that the Government was ignoring the declaration. Foreign 
Minister Togo was absent &om the Palace 
conference and knew nothing of this development.135 
The Premier's statement to the press, 
phrased for home consumption, was extremely 
maladroit. He told reporters that he regarded 
the Three-Power pronouncement as a mere 
restatement of the Cairo Declaration , and that 
the Government attributed no significant value 
to it. The declaration, he added, would not 
be heeded, and the nation's only Course was to 
go ahead with the all-out prosecution of the 
'32 (,) ShUJe"ki ~~;JD (Record of the Termination of the War) by Hiroshi (Kainan) Shimomura , Oct 48, 
pp.87-8 . (2) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., pp. '7-8. 
133 (1) Asahi and Mainichi Newspapers, Tokyo, 28Jul 45. (2) Record of the Termination of the War, op. 
cit., pp. 87-<). 
134 Asahi and Mainichi Newspapers, Tokyo, op. cit., 28 Jul 45· 
135 (I) Record of the Termination of the War, op. cit., p. 90. (2) Statement by Foreign Minister Togo , previously cited. 
704

[705면]
war. '16 
Although some effort appears to have been 
made to caution the press against giving undue 
prominence to the Premier's remarks , the 
newspapers on 29 July played up his assertion that the Government would take no notice 
of the Potsdam Declaration,' '' Moreover, the 
statement was promptly disseminated to the 
world through Japanese news broadcasting 
facilities. Foreign Minister Togo lodged a 
strong protest with the Premier on the ground 
that his statement violated the decisions 
reached by the six leaders and the Cabinet on 
27 July. A retraction, however, was obviously 
impossible, and it was decided to do nothing 
further until Russia 's attitude had been ascertained,"· 
The negotiations with Moscow had been at 
a standstill since Ambassador Sato 's interview 
with Lozovsky on 25 July . Stalin and Molotov 
were still at Potsdam and had authorized no 
reply to the Japanese proposal for the Konoye 
mission . On 30 July , Sato again pressed 
Lozovsky for an answer. He told the Foreign 
Vice-Commissar that, provided the formula of 
unconditional surrender could be avoided, 
Japan desired" to end the war on broad terms 
of compromise , so long as its honor and existence are guaranteed." He asked Lozovsky to 
transmit this information to the Soviet leaders 
at Potsdam, so that they might consider taking 
steps to remove such obstacles as the AngloAmerican-Chinese declaration placed in the 
way of Soviet good offices for peace. Lozovsky 
promised compliance with this request. ' •• 
In Tokyo, meanwhile, the publication of the 
Potsdam terms- even in abridged form- was 
beginning to produce important effects. The 
military in general remained adamantly opposed to acceptance, but on the other hand 
many senior diplomats and influential persons 
in business , politics and press circles began 
privately urging Marquis Kido and members 
of the Cabinet that it was necessary to take 
advantage of the Three- Power offer to bring a 
prompt end to the war,"· 
These were encouraging signs hom the 
viewpoint of the Cabinet peace group. Yet it 
was readily apparent that the Potsdam Declaration had rendered the attitude of the military 
leaders, with the exception of Navy Minister 
Y onai, even more intransigent than it had been 
hitherto . The peace group therefore clung to 
the fast-vanishing hope of Soviet acceptance of 
the role of mediator as the sole means of finding a way out of this impasse. 
The decision to await Russia's answer was 
thus dictated not only by the exigencies of the 
tenuous internal situation but with slim hope 
of Soviet acceptance of the mediator's role. It 
was also influenced , however , by the fact that 
at no time had the Potsdam Declaration, despite 
its threat of " prompt and utter destruction", 
been construed as an ultimatum, non-acceptance of which by Japan would result in anything worse than a gradual intensification of 
enemy action against the homeland, culminating in the final invasion itself. There was 
certainly no suspicion that the declaration 
constituted forewarning of inunediate and more 
terrible reprisal if Japan did not yield. 
On 6 August, just ten days after the receipt 
of the Potsdam Declaration , the people of 
Hiroshima tragically learned otherwise. 
136 Record of the Termination of the War, op. cit., p. 90. 
45· 
137 Statement by Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, previously cited. 
138 Statement by Foreign Minister Togo , previously cited. 
139 Foreign Office Radios, op. cit., No. 1484, Japanese Ambassador at Moscow to Foreign Minister, 30 Jul 
140 (1) Kido Diary, op. cit., (Entries dated 28lul to 3 Aug 45.) (2) Togo Memoirs, op. cit., p. 18. 
705

[706면]
The Atomic Bomb 
Hiroshima, situated in southwestern Honshu, was a city of 343,000. Its inhabitants 
considered themselves fortunate in that the 
city, thanks to its relative lack of war industry, had so far been over·looked by the enemy's 
incendiary-laden B-29'S. However , it seemed 
problematical how long this good fortune 
would continue. Located in the city since 
April 1945 was the headquarters of the Second 
General Army, the top operational headquarters for southwestern Honshu, Shikoku and 
Kyushu. The next-door Inland Sea port of 
Ujina had lost its original inrportance as a 
military port for the shipment of troops and 
supplies overseas, but in the southeastern part 
of Hiroshima there remained a considerable 
number of military supply dumps and warehouses. 
The 6th of August dawned sultry but fairly 
clear. At 0709 the early-warning radar net 
detected a small number of aircraft headed 
toward southern Japan, and a preliminary alert 
was sounded throughout the Hiroshinra area. 
Radio stations promptly went off the air. 
Shortly thereafter, enemy planes circled over 
Hiroshinra and withdrew without bombing . 
An "all clear" was sounded at 0730. People 
began their daily activities, thinking that the 
danger was past. 
At 0800, however, two enemy B-29'S were 
spotted heading toward Hiroshima. Radio 
broadcasting stations again issued a warning, 
telling the people that it would be advisable to 
take shelter if the enemy craft appeared over 
the city but that their mission appeared to be 
reconnaissance rather than bombing. Most 
factory and office workers had already reported 
to their places of employment, and those who 
were en route confidently continued on their 
way. The city's school children and some 
industrial workers were busily engaged in building firebreaks and evacuating valuables to the 
country. 
Two B-29's soon appeared over the city, 
flying at high altitude. Since no bombing 
was expected, many people declined to take 
shelter and curiously watched the enemy planes 
as they came over. Observers later reported 
that they saw a parachute descend from one of 
the planes. Then, at approximately 0815, there 
was a terrific exp'osion over the central section 
of the city. A white flash of blinding intensiW 
was all that many saw before they were struck 
down by the wall of searing heat that pushed 
outward from the explosion. As a huge cloud 
of smoke and dust spiralled up over the city, 
Hiroshima was cloaked in a ghastly pall of 
darkness. Then hundreds of fires, breaking 
out almost sinrultaneously, transformed the city 
into a blazing inferno. 
By nightfall, Hiroshinra had become a waste 
of ashes and smouldering ruins. The city 
writhed with the agony of its dazed, injured 
and dying. Those who had escaped with their 
lives, including many who had been horribly 
burned, streamed out of the city in confusion. 
Only the outlying southern and eastern sections 
of the city, where ironically most of the military 
supply installations were located, had escaped 
destruction. 
Of the total civilian population of 343,000, 
approxinrately 78,150 were killed, with an additional 5 I ,408 injured or missing. Military 
casualties, not included in these figures, were 
light. Nearly 48,000 of the total 76,327 buildings in Hiroshima had been completely 
destroyed, and 22, I 78 half-demolished or badly 
damaged. More than 176,987 persons were 
left homeless. '.' 
'4' Taiheiyo Sm,o ni yo", Waga Kuni no Higa; Sogo Hokoku,ho ::t2J<l'l"iit*1C J: o:fXlIil ~it'!'***fI!'Jr1!f (Con· 
solidated Report of Losses and Damage Suffered in the Pacific War) Economic Stabilization Board, 1949, pp. 177-80 . 
706

[707면]
Because of the complete disruption of communications in the stricken area, the first news 
of the catastrophe did not reach the Government in Tokyo until the afternoon of the 6th. 
The initial reports were meager and fragmentary, but they clearly indicated that the enemy 
had unleashed on Hiroshima a new-type bomb 
of unprecedented destructive power. 
Early on 7 August, the Government and the 
High Command learned from American and 
British radio broadcasts that the destruction 
of Hiroshima had been wrought by an atomic 
bomb. President Truman 's announcement to 
this effect shocked the Japanese authorities . '4' 
Shortly thereafter, the Army and Navy in 
Tokyo received direct reports from Hiroshima 
and Kure telling of the immense havoc wrought 
by the enemy weapon. 
At the Cabinet meeting which took place 
the same morning, Foreign Minister Togo gave 
a lengthy summation of the information contained in foreign broadcasts with regard to the 
atomic bomb and indirectly hinted that the 
Potsdam Declaration should be accepted. The 
service ministers presented preliminary reports 
on the effects of the Hiroshima bombing, but 
the Cabinet withheld its judgment pending 
further investigation. 
The general public was not informed of the 
bombing official1y until the following day. The 
newspapers on 8 August carried an Imperial 
General Headquarters communique, dated 7 
August which merely stated that Hiroshima 
had been " considerably" damaged by a .. newtype bomb." After considerable discussion it 
had been decided not to use the term " atomic 
bomb" in the communique until the facts had 
been established by an official investigation on 
th ~ spot. 
The investigating committee dispatched by 
the High Command reached Hiroshima on the 
8th and swiftly confirmed that the extent and 
nature of the destruction pointed to the use of 
an atomic bomb. ,., But even before official 
reports from this party reached Tokyo , Premier 
Suzuki and Foreign Minister Togo, aroused 
by the unusual importance attached to Hiroshima by the enemy radio. conferred and 
decided that Togo should communicate the 
substance of the Allied reports to the Emperor, 
recommending prompt acceptance of the 
Potsdam terms. 
Received in audience at the Palace on the 
afternoon of the 8th, Togo conveyed to the 
Emperor his opinion that the atomic bomb 
would revolutionize modern warfare and warned 
that more bombs would probably be dropped 
on Japanese cities unless resolute action were 
taken to accept the Potsdam Declaration. The 
Emperor , in reply, agreed that Japan should 
no longer delay its decision to end the war 
and requested Togo to convey his wishes to 
the Premier. Suzuki then tried to convoke 
an immediate meeting of the Supreme War 
142 Many Japanese authorities were aware that scientists abroad were engaged in atomic research for war purposes, 
but it was not believed that success would be achieved during the present war. Follow ing successive report s from the 
scene of disaster J the authorities grew more convinced of the truth of the American broadcast, though there were some 
who at first were inclined to discredit the Truman announcement as propaganda intended to frighten the Japanese. 
(I) Record of the Termination of the War, op. cit., p. <}8. (2) Atomic research had been conducted in great secrecy 
by both the Army and Navy for some time during the war, but experiments were dropped early in 1945 because of 
the prodigious expense and the small likelihood of achieving success in the immediate future. (Statement by Lt. Gen. 
Kawabe, previously cited.) 
143 Included in the mission led by Lt. Gen. Seizo Arisue, were Dr. Yoshio Nishina, foremost atomic energy 
authority in Japan, the only civilian j and a number of experts from the Army Aeronautical Department and the Army 
Medical School. Delayed by an accident en route, Nishina's party did not reach Hiro shima until the afternoon of 8 
August, but it quidc.ly established the facts. (Statements by Dr. Yoshio Nishina and Lt. Gen. Seizo Arisue, Chief, 
Second Bureau (Intelligence), Imperial General Headquarters, Army Section.) 
707

[708면]
Direction Council but was unable to do so because of the inability of some members to be 
present.'" 
Soviet Entry Into War 
The Cabinet meanwhile hopefully awaited 
the long-delayed interview which Ambassador 
Sato was scheduled to have with Foreign Commissar Molotov at 2300 8 August ( 1700 
hours, 8 August, Moscow Time. ) Stalin and 
Molotov had returned to Moscow on 6 August, 
much later than the Japanese Government anticipated. Sato had requested an inrmediate 
interview, but not until 7 August, a day after 
the United States revealed to the world it had 
dropped its first atomic missile, did Molotov 
agree to a meeting. 
Russia's stunning answer was a declaration 
of war. Within the hour that Molotov was 
delivering the abrupt reply, Red Army troops 
were attacking at various points along the long 
Manchurian frontier and the North Korean 
border, with the greatest concentration at points 
bordering Mongolia. South Sakhalin was also 
invaded simultaneously. At dawn Soviet 
planes were attacking cities in Manchuria and 
North Korea as well as Japanese convoys in the 
Japan Sea. Although the Soviet offensive was 
sluggish at the outset, the Kwantung Army, 
weakened by diversion initially of much of its 
strength to the Southern Regions and more 
recently for the defense of Japan Proper, was 
unable to check the enemy offensive.'" 
Neither the Government nor the High Command in Tokyo was aware of the Soviet · action 
until 0400 hours, 9 August, when the Domei 
News Agency intercepted the Tass message 
which read as follows; ' .. 
With the defeat and capitulation of Hitlerite 
Germany, Japan remaim the only great Axis po",er 
continuing the war. 
With the rejection by the Japanese Government of 
the 26 July demand of the United States, Great 
Britain dud China, for the unconditional surrender 
of the Japanese armed forces, the proposal of the 
Japanese Goyernment to the So.iet Union ",ith regard 
to mediation in the Far East loses its basis. In "iew 
of japan's refusal to surrender, the Allied nations haye 
submitted to the Soyiet Government a proposal that 
it join the war agaiTlS! Japanese aggresno", i1l order 
to hasten the ",d of the conf/ict, reduce the number 
of ')IKtirm, aud contribute to the early restoration of 
uni'Versa! peace. 
The Soyiet Government, fulfilling i/$ obligations 
to i/$ A llies, has accepted this proposal by the Allied 
natioTU and has joined in their declaration of July 26. 
The So.iet Go>ernmeut cOll$iders that a policy such 
as it has adopted is the ollly mealls of expediting the 
return of peace, freeillg the se>eral peoples from further sacrifices alld suffering and helping the Japanese 
natioll a.oid the dange" and destruction suffered by 
Germany after her refusal to surrender utlconditionally. 
For the foregoing reasous, the Soyiet GO')lemment 
declares that as of tomorrow, 9 August, a state of 
war will exist between the Soyiet UniO:1 and japan . 
The immediate reaction to the sudden Soviet 
attack was one of pained disappointment and 
144 Statement by Foreign Minister Togo , previously cited. 
145 Suspicious of Soviet intentions , Imperial General Headquarters had already ordered the Kwanrung Army to 
prepare against Soviet aggression. Hard pressed on the Pacific front, almost all the efficient weapons, such as aircraft 
and antiaircraft gun s, as well as the better-trained troops, were withdrawn to Japan for the anticipated homeland barde, 
leaving the once-mighty Kwantung Army with nothing but poorly equipped troops. Accordingly, Imperial General 
Headquarters stipulated in May 1945 that the main line of defense was to be limited to south Manchuria and north Korea. 
146 (I) The Japane se Government was not officially informed of the Russian declaration of war until t I 15 hours, 
10 August, when the Soviet envoy Malik, called on Foreign Minister Togo to deliver his Government's note. (2) Sorm 
Sansen ni tomonau Tsu<u"; ~~~iiltlCf!I'~~ (File on Soviet Entry into Wat) Part I, 9-20 Aug 45. 
708

[709면]
indignation. The Kremlin's declaration of war 
had shattered the last remainmg hope of the 
Japanese to end the war through Soviet good 
offices. Premier Suzuki, upon hearing the 
news, remarked that the " inevitable has finally 
occurred." '17 
The Soviet entry into the war, coming quicklyon the heels of the atom bomb, multiplied 
the urgency of arriving at a decision. The 
Government no longer could brook delays. 
When the atomic nature of the Hiroshima 
bombing had been finally confirmed, Suzuki, 
upon Togo's advice, had attempted to convoke 
the " Big Six" council that evening to secure 
a decision, but was forced to postpone the 
meeting until the morning of the 9th. Such 
being the case, the Emperor, Suzuki and Togo 
were ready to accept the Potsdam Declaration 
when they heard the Tass announcement of 
war. 
At 0840, 9 August, Togo conferred with 
Suzuki on the unprecedentedly grave situation 
at the latter's home and reaffirmed their agreement to place the prompt-surrender problem 
before the Big Six conference. En route back 
to his office, the Foreign Minister stopped at 
the Navy Ministry where he obtained Y onai's 
prompt and willing consent to go along with 
Suzuki and Togo on accepting the Potsdam 
Declaration. 
At 1000 hours, the Premier was at the 
Imperial Palace. There he was advised by 
Marquis Kido that the Emperor, who only a 
short time before had been notified by the 
Foreign Office of the Soviet act of war, had 
ordered him to point out to Suzuki the urgency 
of accepting the Declaration immediately.· .. 
Suzuki, fearing it would be exceedingly difficult 
to secure swift unanimity on this grave and 
delicate issue, then requested and obtained the 
Emperor's assurance of an Imperial decision in 
the event of a deadlock .• ,. 
At 1030, following the Palace interviews, 
the six leaders of the Supreme War Direction 
Council were gathered at the Imperial Palace, 
at the summons of Suzuki, for a critical discussion of the .surrender question, the first of 
a series of crucial parleys which eventually decided the fate of the nation. By this time the 
six leaders were all agreed that the situation 
was serious, but they had not made up their 
minds what the final decision would be. 
Suzuki proposed at the outset that Japan 
should promptly accept the Potsdam Declaration, which was the Emperor's wish. In the 
ensuing discussion the following four points 
were considered: ( I) the preservation of the 
"national polity," (2) the extent and nature 
of the Allied occupation of the homeland, (3) 
the disarmament of the military forces, and 
(4) the disposition of war criminals.'''' 
The conferees promptly agreed that the first 
and most important condition must be that 
acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration would 
not endanger the "national polity," or the 
prerogatives of the Imperial family. But Anami, the War Minister, and Umezu, Chief 
of Army General Staff, insisted that three 
additional conditions be approved: 
I. That the Japanese military forces overseas be disarmed and demobilized by Japan 
itself ; 
147 u The Premier seemed quite unperturbed when told of the news of the Russian entry into the war and merely 
replied that the inevitable had finally occurred. U The question to many in high Government quarters was not whether 
the Soviet Union would enter the war but when. Truth of the Surrender Period, Asahi Newspaper, Tokyo , 14 Jan 46. 
148 Kido Diary, op. cit., IMTFE Record, p. 31,172. 
149 Fearing that a complete agreement was impossible if the issue of continued war or surrender was left to the 
Big Six Council and the Cabinet, Suzuki, during his morning audience with the Emperor, asked him to express an 
Imperial opinion. The Emperor quickly agreed.· (Statement by Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, previously cited.) 
1,0 Statement by Admiral Toyoda, previously ciced. 
709

[710면]
2. That all war criminals be prosecuted by 
the Japanese Government itself; and , 
3. That there be no Allied occupation of 
Japan.'" 
The principle of self-disarmament was en· 
dorsed by Admiral Toyoda, Chief of Navy 
General Staff. He reluctantly supported 
Anami and Umezu on the two other conditions. 
Foreign Minister Togo , however, vigorously 
opposed any extra conditions. He warned that 
to press for terms other than the sole reservation 
governing the Imperial prerogatives would 
jeopardize the peace negotiations even before 
they started. Both Suzuki and Y onai supported 
Togo in his agruments, but after three hours 
of inconclusive deliberations, the Council was 
forced to adjourn in a deadlock. 
First Cabinet Deliberations on Peace 
The issue of immediate peace or continued 
war was then submitted by the Premier to a 
full dress Cabinet session at '430, at which 
time Togo revealed to his Ministers for the first 
time the secret peace maneuvers which had 
thus far been the principal preoccupation of 
the Supreme War Direction Council. .,. Following a detailed explanation of the peace effort, Suzuki hoped to elicit the frank opinions 
of each Minister on the issue of peace before 
finally casting the die in the fateful deliberations. Suzuki emphasized both the gravity 
of the situation and the imperativeness of 
reaching an immediate decision, but the Cabinet wrangled indecisively for more than seven 
hours without nearing an agreement. 
In the Cabinet considerations, as in the 
earlier Council deliberations, the two opposing 
views represented by Togo, Suzuki and Y onai 
on one side, and Anami on the other, were 
clearly delineated. The pro-surrender group 
saw no hope of victoty. They were convinced 
that war meant only more destruction and ultimate extinction of the nation itself, and that 
the Potsdam Declaration offered acceptable 
terms. The opposing group, maintaining that 
the real test of Japan's strength was yet to 
come in the expected Homeland battle, argued 
that once severe casualties had been inflicted on 
the invasion force, it would be possible to terminate . the war on more favorable terms. 
Foreign Minister Togo, the outspoken peace 
advocate, reminded his colleagues that the atom 
bomb (a second atomic bomb had been dropped 
at II03 hours that morning, 9 August)'" and 
the Soviet war on Japan had further strengthened the hands of the Allies since the Potsdam 
ultimatum was issued and insisted that there 
was no way open for hard diplomatic bargaining 
In view of the uncompromising nature of the 
151 A summary of what took place in this conference can be found in the following document: Memorandum 
Notes of Lt. Gen. Sumihisa Ikeda, Chief, Cabinet Coordination and Planning Bureau, 27 Jul-I7 Aug 45. 
152 The Cabinet had been ordered to assemble by noon by which time it appears Suzuki had hoped to secure the 
six leaders' approval of the Government's peace plan. The Cabinet did not meet until 1430 because of the cleavage in 
the Council and was closeted until 2230 in acrimonious debate. Record of the Termination of the War, op. cit., p. 116. 
153 While the Nagasaki bombing does not appear to have had much influence on the peace discussions in the 
Cabinet , the fact that a second atom bom~ had been dropped even before the Japanese had begun to recover from the 
horrible experiences at Hiro shima aroused widespread fear among the people that other cities might soon be deluged by 
this extremely destructive enemy weapon. A rumor was then circulating that what was left of Tokyo would be destroyed 
before 15 August . Nagasaki , like Hiro shima, had until 9 August escaped the general air raids experienced by other 
major cities. In proportion to the area hit, Nagasaki suffered much more heavily in dead and injured than Hiro shima. 
Out of a total population of 270,000, there were ::Z3.TB killed and 43 .0::z0 injured. (I) Consolidated Report of Losses 
and Damage Suffered in the Pacific War, op. cit., pp. '79 - ,80. (2) T okyo So", Us Bomb", an article by Father Joseph 
Flaujac, appearing in the Bethany Institute Bulletin NO.5, '940 - 47, p. 31. 
710

[711면]
Declaration. Japan , he proposed, should accept 
the Allied terms with only the reservation 
governing the Imperial family attached . 
War Minister Anami rejected Togo's arguments and while admitting that the Soviet 
Union could take over Manchuria, where the 
heaviest fighting was occurring, in two or three 
months time, he attempted to minimize the 
effectiveness of the atom bomb on the home 
front. Far from giving up, he concluded, Japan should insist on the four conditions discussed by the six leaders of the Supreme War 
Direction Council that morning, and continue 
hostilities in the event those conditions were 
rejected. 
The protracted and grim debate was punctuated by heated argument between the War 
and Navy Ministers on Japan's ability to continue the war. Y onai, painting a definitely 
pessimistic picture, emphasized that the capacity to wage war should be viewed from overall considerations and that since the problem 
of continuing the war was a matter to be decided 
on the basis of a total war, he suggested that 
the conditions in the munitions, food producing and transportation industries, as well 
as morale problems, should be discussed frankly. By so doing , he said, the Government 
would obtain a clear over-all appraisal of the 
real situation. The extremely depressing reports by the Ministers in charge on these 
questions bore out Y onai's deep concern.'''' 
Suzuki then requested each Minister to state 
his views on Togo's proposal that Japan accept 
the Declaration subject to the one provision. 
At the conclusion of the Cabinet session, the 
lineup on the Togo proposal stood as follows: 
Against-War Minister Anami, Home Minister Abe and Justice Minister Matsuzaka: 
For-Foreign Minister Togo and Navy Minister Y onai. Although one or two remained 
non-committal, the others favored intermediate 
positions with most of them leaning toward 
Togo . A suggestion by Education Minister 
Ota that the Cabinet resign because of its 
inability to resolve the impasse was quickly 
scotched by Suzuki. 
With time growing short and the conferees 
weary of discussion, Suzuki ordered a recess 
at 2230 and sought to settle the matter by 
resuming the morning deliberation of the 
Supr eme War Direction Council in the presence of the Emperor. Suzuki directly informed 
the Emperor that he was unable to achieve the 
necessary unanimity required of a Cabinet 
decision and petitioned the Emperor for a conference. This meeting was arranged to invoke 
the Emperor's wilL'" 
Showdown on Surrender Issue 
At 2330, an hour after the end of the heated 
Cabinet session, the "Big Six" council sat 
down with the Emperor in an air raid shelter 
154 Munitions Minister Teijiro Teyada revealed that munitions produccion had fallen sharply since late spring; 
mat the slump was due to transportation difficulties and failing morale of the workers who, he admitted, had lost <I all 
sense of securio/ and confidence in the Government and the armed forces." Agriculture and Commerce Minister Ishiguro 
reported that the crop year was the worst since 1931 and that in various areas famine conditions by winter were inevitable. 
Especially deplorable, he added, was the fact that soldiers were entering homes and taking whatever they needed to 
appease their hunger. Home Mini ster Abe stated bluntly that the people had lost confidence in winning the war; that 
the atomic bomb and the Russian invasion had aggravated war weariness, but said some elements of the people were 
determined to fight on. An equally grim outlook on transportation and communications prospects was given by Trans. 
portation Minister Kohiyama. Record of Termination of the War, op. cit., pp. 116-125. 
155 Suzuki l never permitted either the Big Six Council or the Cabinet to break up their discussions. Whenever he 
found it impossible to secure the necessary unanimitYI he called a recess. This policy proved successful because it enabled 
him to resume the meetings on a momenes notice, when time was so precious. (Statement by Chief Cabinet Secretary 
Sakomlzu, previously cited.) 
711

[712면]
PLATE NO. 165 
Imperial Conference of 9-10 August 1945

[713면]
defp inside the Imperial Palace for a showdown 
on the surrender question. Present also were 
the president of the Privy Council, Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma and the Chief Aide -de-Camp, 
General Shigeru Hasunuma;'" the Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu and three other officials occupying important position in the 
over-all direction of the war.'" 
Sakomizu, on orders of Suzuki, read the 
Potsdam Declaration to the Emperor, and then 
the Premier himself placed on the agenda 
as the subject of consideration the following 
proposal, which had been drafted by the 
Foreign Minister :.,. 
The Japanese GOYemment is ready to end the war 
under term< of the Three Power Joint Declaration 
of 26 July 1945 with the underr/a1uiing that the raid 
Declaration doer not comprire any demand prejudicial 
to the status of the Imperial family under the funda· 
mental law of the nation. 
The Premier explained that this proposal 
had been submitted in preference to the 
other plan containing the four conditions 
because the majority of the Cabinet had favored, or at least desired, a minimum of reservations. This maneuver was a disappointment 
toAnami and the bitter-end resistance faction.'" 
Backing up Suzuki, the Foreign Minister then 
strongly reiterated his position that the Allies 
could not be prevailed upon to ease surrender 
terms through negotiations. Japan, he insisted, should not propose any new conditions. To this, the Navy Minister expressed 
complete agreement. 
The War Minister, however, remained adamant, stressing that acceptance of the Potsdam 
terms would result in national ruin. The four 
conditions were a minimum which Japan could 
consider, he asserted, adding that the very fact 
that Soviet Union had joined the Declaration 
had made acceptance even more unpalatable. 
Anami expressed the Army's confidence in Japan's ability to secure better terms and voiced 
the fear that if the Government ended the war 
without attempting further clarification, there 
would be chaos in the country. 
Full concurrence with Anami's views was 
expressed by the Chiefs of the Army and Navy 
General Staffs.·60 Hiranuma made a number of 
pointed inquiries on the state of defense preparations and then agreed in principle with the 
Togo plan but suggested that the wording of 
the draft reply be amended to read that any 
Allied demand would not prejudice the prerogat;yes of the Emperor as a soyereign ruler. Hira156 Hiranuma attended the conference at the invitation of the Emperor. It was believed that the attendance of 
Hiranuma was necessary to help reach a final decision on the formal diplomatic note to be made to the Allies. (Statement 
by Chief Cabinet Secretary Salcomizu. previously cited.) 
157 Two of them, Lt. Gen. Yoshizumi and Vice Adm. Hoshina, the Chiefs of the Military and Naval Affairs 
Bureaus of the War and Navy Ministries respectively, were ex-oHicio secretaries of the Supreme War Direction Council. The other was Lt. Gen. Sumihisa Ikeda) Chief of the Cabinet Coordination and Planning Bureau, which wu 
also an ex·officio secretary of the Council since April 194' . 
1,8 From a manuscript written by Vice Adm . Hoshina, who sat in discussions as ez·officio secretary. 
1 '9 Wac Minister Anami on 13 August intimated to his subordinates in the Wac Ministry that he had scented 
intrigue by the opposing faction when he found only the Foreign Minister's plan on the agenda. Anami instantly 
whispered to Umezu, Chief of the Army General Staff, who was seated next to him, that they should insist on continuation 
of the war instead of standing on their previous arguments for the four conditions. (Statement by Lt. Col. Inaba, previously 
cited.) 
160 The Chief of the Army General Staff argued that the situation was not so bad that there was no other choice 
but surrender and that to lay down arms " we will do a great wrong to our war dead. It The Chief of the Navy General 
Staff doubted that the Japanese people would agree to capitulate without trouble resulting. U The Japanese sense of 
honor is too great to endure the sight of their land being occupied or their arms being taken away." he declared. 
Unpublished Record of Japanese Navy General Stalf, p. 3. 
713

[714면]
numa emphasized the point that Japan's ability 
to continue the war should be considered before negotiating for additional conditions. For 
this reason, he said, it was important to consider the condition of the civilian population 
as well as the strength of the armed forces. 
In the end, he felt, however, that the ultimate 
decision of surrender rested with the Emperor. 
It was already past 0200 on 10 August ; the 
cleavage in the council was as pronounced as 
ever. The Premier noted that despite several 
hours of continous discussion, the guest ion remained unsettled ; that in this extremely crucial 
hour there could be no further delays. Under 
the circumstances, he was proposing the Emperor's wish be made known. Suzuki, stepping 
forward in an unexampled act in Japan's constitutional history, reguested the Emperor to 
state his opinion, and at the same time, pleaded 
with the group to accept the Emperor's resolve 
as final.'·· 
The Emperor asserted at the start that he 
was in complete accord with the views of the 
Foreign Minister and then proceeded to give 
his reasons. To continue the war in the light 
of the world situation and Japan's internal conditions would be suicidal, he said, adding that 
to end the war on this occasion was the only 
way to save the nation from destruction. 
He then pointed to the record of the military. 
The Emperor said it was apparent that their 
performance had fallen far short of the plans 
and promises expressed, pointing out that 
although he had been assured many times in 
the past that victory was certain, it had not been 
realized. Despite the War Minister's promise 
that the fortifications along the KujukuriHama coast (in Chiba Prefecture) would be 
completed by the middle of August, they were 
far from completion. He said it had also been 
brought to his attention that new Army divisions had been organized, but that there were 
no arms with which to equip them. 
In short, he said he could see no hop~ of 
victory over the highly mechanized Allied 
forces. He stressed, in conclusion, that he 
was deep'y cognizant of the feelings of the 
sorrowed families of the war dead and the 
tremendous sacrifices made by the armed forces 
during the period of hostilities, but that for 
more important considerations he had decided 
that the war should be stopped. , •• 
The Imperial wish had been made unmistakably clear. Suzuki then emphasized that 
this should be the conclusion of the conference. 
The tense momentous meeting was finally 
adjourned at 0230, and half an hour later 
the Cabinet reconvened at the Premier's 
official residence where the Ministers had been 
waiting anxiously since the recess of the previous evening. Togo reported to his colleagues 
that his proposal had been adopted by the 
161 Suzuki 's decision to request Imperial intercession to solve an emergency issue was an extraordinary one in 
Japanese constitutional usage. In all previous conferences in the Emperor's presence, the agenda had been well prepared 
in advance and unanimously agreed upon among the authorities concerned. Suzuki 's determination to pull Japan out 
of the war is perhaps best illustrated in his post·surrender reRections in Features of the Termination of the War, in 
which he defends his position in refusing to resign during the crucial period when his Cabinet was split on the 
surrender issue. Of significance are the following passages which read in substance: CI In accordance with the 
established interpretation, the Emperor was exempt from political responsibillties, and his sanction was nothing but a 
legal formaHty. Even in national emergencies the Government decided policy. But it has been my long cherished 
idea that the Government ought to seek the Emperor's opinion in case they cannot reach an agreement among 
themselves on a national question of paramount importance." Features of the Termination of the War, op. cit., pp. 
46-47· 
162 The Emperor's statement is based on the unpublished manuscript of Vice Adm. Hoshina. 
714

[715면]
Imperial conference with a revISion as suggested by Hiranuma . Both he and Suzuki 
were emphatic on the fact that the decision to 
surrender was the will of the Emperor. This 
time the full Cabinet unanimously agreed to 
Togo's proposal and signed the necessary 
document of approval. •• , The weary sesSIOn 
broke up at 0400 hours, 10 August. 
Initial Reply to Potsdam 
At 0700 on 10 August a message including 
the following passages was transmitted to the 
Governments of the United States, Great Britain, the Soviet Union and China , through 
the intermediary of Switzerland and Sweden.· .. 
In obedience to the gracious command of His 
Majesty the Emperor .,ho. e'Yer anxious to enhance the 
cause of world peace, desires earnestl., to bring about 
a speedy termination of hostiiitieswith tl ')Iiew to salling 
mankind from the cala.ruties to be imposed upon them 
b., further continuation of the .,ar, the Japanese Go .. ",· 
ment se'Yeral .,eeks ago asked the So.iet Go>e"" 
ment, with which neutral relations then pre'Ya.1ed, to 
render good offices in re#oringpeace ..,iI-tl-"is the ellemy 
powers. Unfortunately, these efforts in the interest 
of peact haying failed, tht Japanese Go. ernmeut in 
confor.ruty with the august wish of His Majesty to 
1<store the gtneral peace and desiring to put an end to 
the untold suffering tntailed b., .,ar as quickly as 
possible, haye decided upon the follo.,ing : 
The Japanese Go.ernment is read., to accept tht 
terms enumerated in the joint declarah'on which was 
issued at PoWam on Jul., 26th, '945, by the heads of 
the GO')lemmeuts of the United States, Great Britain, 
and China, and later subscribed b., the So.iet Goyernmt1lt, with the understanding that the said declaration 
does not comprise any demand which prejudices tht 
prerogati>es of His Majesty as a Sorereign Ruler. 
The Japanese Go>ernment sincerely hope that this 
understanding is warranted and dtsire keenly that an 
explicit indication to that effect will be speedil., forthcoming. 
But a real difficulry lay in the problem of 
how to prepare for surrender of a nation, which 
for months had been geared and groomed ror 
war to the bitter finish. In the first place, it 
was virtually certain that the war faction would 
not be satisfied with this decision; in fact, there 
was danger of a coup d'etat. Moreover, it was 
almost impossible to keep such a drastic, ."olteface in national policy hidden for long from the 
public, as well as the ever-watchful eye of the 
military. Indeed, as early as 10 August, officer 
elements in the Army, Navy and the High 
Command had become increasingly restive. 
Thus, on the morning of 10 August , soon 
after the official reply had been sent to the 
Allies, General Anami felt it necessary to warn 
his subordinates in the War Ministry against 
any overt attempts to obstruct the Government's surrender decision .•• , At the same time, 
Admiral Toyoda, Chief of the Navy General 
Staff, noting the mounting restless atmosphere 
within his office, delivered a similar warning.· .. 
The Cabinet was caught in a dilemma. 
163 The entire Cabinet signed the ratification papers. (Statement by Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomi%u, 
previowly cited.) 
164 The Japanese Government's message to the four Allied Powers is contained in the Swiss Charge d'affaires 
note to the U . S. Secretary of State, James F. Byrnes. dated 10 August. T~ Axis in D~f~at, op. cit., p. 29. 
16, At 0900. Anami called together the officers of lieutenant colonel's rank and above to explain the decision 
talcen at the Imperial conference of 9-1 0 August, declaring: u •••••• though I am sorry for you, it can't be helped, because 
this is the Emperor's opinion. The important thing for us to do is to maintain order in the Army. No individual 
should resort to undisciplined action. Anyway, this decision is made on the condition chat the national polity will be 
preserved. Consequently, the war has not ended with this decision. The Army must be prepared for both peace and 
war." (Statement by Lt. Col, Masahilc.o Takeshita, Military Affairs Bureau, War Ministry. Talc.eshita is the brother· 
in-law of General Anami.) 
,66 Statement by Adm. Toyoda, previowly cited. 
71 5

[716면]
Unless the secret peace maneuvers were 
brought to fruition quickly, there were growing 
possibilities of an armed revolt. Yet , there 
were at the same time great uncertainties about 
the nature of the expected Allied reply. An 
unfavorable answer might force a fundamental 
reconsideration of the surrender question. 
Under these circumstances, the Cabinet met 
again at '400 to discuss what measures should 
be taken to make known the fateful decision, 
but here again there was a fresh clash of views. 
While some Ministers favored an immediate 
and frank explanation by the Government, 
others advised extreme caution. It was agreed 
in the end that no announcement of the nego· 
tiations would be made until an Imperial Rescript proclaiming Japan's acceptance of the 
Potsdam terms was issued. Instead, the nation 
would be directed obliquely toward peace in a 
piecemeal and gradual manner consistent with 
all developments. 
The initial step in that course was taken 
through an official announcement made in the 
name of the President of the Cabinet Information Board. After drawing the nation's 
attention to the grave situation facing Japan 
as a result of two successive events-the employment by the United States of the extremely 
destructive atom bomb and the Soviet entry 
into the Pacific war, the statement read in 
conclusion: 
.. Despite the prompt action taken b, our (orees 
to check enemy aggression, 'We mwt admit our fortunes are now at their lowest ebb. The Go>ernment 
will do its utmost to defend the national polity and 
the honor of the nation. But at the same time, the 
G""ernment expects you, the one hundred million 
people of Japan, to ""ereome all difficulties to uphold 
our national polity.'" 
The statement, although pregnant with 
weighty implications , was vague and ambiguous. It also reflected the delicate situation 
which existed in the Government and military 
circles in the period just prior to the surrender. 
The original draft prepared by the President 
of the Cabinet Information Board Shimomura 
had been reworded after lengrhy discussion 
before its release to the press. The Cabinet 
felt, however, that it should refrain from going 
beyond this line for the present. Hardly had 
the announcement been drafted when Shimomura was urgently notified that the newspapers 
had been requested by the Army to publish 
some" Instructions to Officers and Men" under 
the name of the War Minister , the essence of 
which was in direct contravention to the spirit 
and intent of the Cabinet statement. This 
proclamation, prepared by the Military Affairs 
Bureau of the War Ministry, had been sent to 
the Tokyo newspapers by junior officers of the 
organization with the request that it be 
published together with the Cabinet's 
announcement. Newspaper editors, recognizing 
the subtle discrepancies between the two 
statements , referred the matter to the Cabinet 
Information Board. 
This development touched off a flurry of 
telephone conversations between the Cabinet 
Information Board, the Premier's secretariat, 
and the War Ministry on how to deal with the 
embarrassing situation. The Chief Cabinet 
Secretary urged Shimomura to suspend the 
War Minister's pronunciamento since it was 
sure to create confusion. However, on the 
ground that it was too late to suppress the 
Army release, it was finally decided between 
Anami and Shimomura to let the matter take 
its own course.·68 
167 Yomiuri-Hochi and Asahi Newspapers, op. cit., Tokyo, II Aug 45. 
168 (1) On the morning of 10 August, on the recommendation of one of his subordinates, Anami approved a 
plan to issue instructions to the officers and men on the 6elds as necessary to maintain me Army 's morale in the face 
of the Soviet entry into the war. Before the draft was formally approved, officers in charge of Army press releases 
716

[717면]
Thus, in the newspapers of I I August, the 
Japanese public read with no little amazement 
the cryptic Cabinet statement, alongside of 
which was the War Minister's instructions, in 
large type, which read substantially as follows :'" 
Inrtructioru to all officer, and men of the Army: 
The Soyiet Union hasfinallytaken up armragainst 
this Empire. Try as she may to disguise the fac/.l 
by rhetoric, her aspirations to conquer and dominate 
Greater East Asia are ofn,ious. In the face of this 
reality, we shall waste no wordr. The only thing 
for us to do iI to fight doggedly to the end in this 
holy war for the defense of our di.ine land. 
It iI our firm belief that though it may mean 
chewing grarr, eating dirt, and sleeping in the field, 
a reIolute fight will surely r<Yeal a way out of a 
desperate situation . ••• 
10 A ugurt I945 
Minirter of War 
The Government's intention-to disclose by 
degrees its resolution to accept the Potsdam 
terms provided the national polity was preserved-was thus obscured by the non-committal phraseology of the Cabinet Information 
Board announcement and the simultaneous 
release of the War Minister's belligerent 
proclamation. The fundamental course had 
been determined, but the abrupt about-face 
from total war to unconditional surrender was 
no easy matter to achieve. 
prepared duplicates and handed them to newspapermen. 
Final Imperial Conference on 
Surrender 
Shortly before 0100 on 12 August, the 
Foreign Office intercepted a U. S. shortwave 
broadcast from San Francisco, which disclosed 
U. S. Secretary of State Byrnes' eagerly-awaited 
reply to the Japanese communication of 10 
August. From the Japanese point of view, the 
Allied broadcast evaded a definite reply to 
Japan's requested reservation on the Emperor's 
prerogatives, around which the whole crucial 
surrender issue revolved. The Allied reply 
left much to interpretation and inference. The 
terms were stated in five brief paragraphs as 
follows : .,. 
With regard to the Japanese Go.ernmenf s merrag. 
accepting the terms of the Potsdam proclamation but 
containing the Itatement, 'with the understanding that 
the raid declaration does not comprise any demand 
which prejudices the prerogati.es of His Majesty as a 
sO'Yereign ruler,' our position ;s as followsFrom the moment of surrender the authority of 
the Emperor and the Japanese GoY<rnment to rule 
the State shall be Iubject to the Supreme Commander 
of th. Allied Powers who will take such steps as h. 
deems proper to effectuate the surrender terms. 
The Emperor will be required to authorize and 
ensure the signature by the Go>ernment of Japan and 
the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters of the 
surrender terms necessary to carry out the pro"i,nons 
of the Pol.Idam Declaration, arId shall irrue his comThe newspapers received the purportedly official Army release 
shortly before 1600, less than three hours before the printing deadline. Radio Tokyo broadcast the War Minister's in· 
structions just preceding the Cabinet's announcement. (Statements by Lt. Col. Tak.eshita and Lt. Col. Inaba, previously 
cited.) 
(2) Although the editorial staff of the Asahi Newspaper. which prominently carried both announcements, did not 
doubt the authenticicy of the Army's request, it distinctly felt the sharp differences in the spirit of the Cabinet and War 
Ministry announcements. After a hot debate among the editors, it was decided to give the Army announcement as much 
prominence as the Cabinet statement. This action reSected the stro ng influence which the Army maintained over the 
press and propaganda organs. (Statement by Taihei Oshima, member of editorial staff- of the Asahi Newspaper.) 
169 Yomiuri-Hochi and Asahi Newspapers, op. citn Tokyo, 11 Aug 45. 
170 The Axis in Dqedt, op. cit., pp. 30-1. 
717

[718면]
marads to all the Japanese military, 1I4Yai arul air 
authorities and to all the forces under their control 
wher~er located to cease acti"e operations and to 
surrender their arms, and to issue such other orders 
as the Supreme Commarader may require to gi>e effect 
to the surrender terms. 
Immediately upo" the surrender the Japa"ese 
Govemment shall transport prisoners of ",ar arad 
ci"j[ian internees to places of jafety, as directed, 
",here they call quickly be placed aboard Allied 
tram ports. 
The ultimate form of Govemment of Japan shall, 
in accordaraCf ",ith the Potsdam Declaration, be estab. 
lished by the freely expressed ",i/l of the Japanese 
people. 
The armed forces of the Allied Powers will remain 
in Japan until the purposes set forth in the Potsdam 
Declaration are achieyed. 
An immediate study of the broadcast reply 
was undertaken by Foreign Vice-Minister 
Shunichi Matsumoto, together with Chief 
Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu. A hurried examination was also made by the High Command which had received the monitored text 
from the Army and Navy intelligence network. 
At 0800 as the Foreign Vice-Minister and 
Togo agreed to press for acceptance of the 
Allied terms, Sakomizu was advising the 
Premier to accept the Byrnes' reply. 
The evasive Allied attitude toward the Emperor's ultimate position, however, aroused 
high military quarters and stiffened their attirude toward the whole surrender problem. At 
0820, General Umezu and Admiral Toyoda, the 
respective Chiefs of the Army and Navy General 
Staff's, went to the Imperial Palace together and 
made a joint plea to the Emperor to reject the 
Allied conditions. 
They declared that the terms subjecting the 
Emperor to the will of the Allied Supreme 
Commander was tantamount to reducingJapan 
to a mere vassalage; the Emperor would be 
placed in a subordinate position, a situation 
which neither the Army nor the Navy could 
countenance. They argued that acceptance of 
the terms would invite internal chaos and result 
in the ultimate removal of the Imperial 
family.'" 
The hews of the Allied answer generated 
uneasiness in Army circles, and the threat of 
an organized Army coup d'etat, which had long 
been feared by the peace group, appeared to 
take concrete form. Soon after T oyoda and 
Umezu had returned from their unscheduled 
Palace visit, a group of young officers in the 
War Ministry appeared before Anami, suggesting that the Army undertake a coup, if necessary, to stop the peace movement. Anami, 
however, smothered the suggestion of rebellion 
by adroitly evading a definite commitment; 
yet, at the same time, he went to Suzuki to 
voice his opposition to the Allied reply. ", 
The text of the Allied broadcast and the 
Foreign Office's interpretation of the terms 
were submitted to the Emperor at 1100 by 
Foreign Minister Togo, shortly after he had 
conferred with Smuki. Immediately thereafter, Togo met with Marquis Kido, the Emperor's personal advisor, and received assur171 Joint plea to the Emperor by Gen. Umezu and Adm. Toyoda, Chiefs of the Army and Navy General Staffs, 
respectively. The Unpublished Record of the Japanese Navy General Staff, p. 3. 
172 (I) Anami was apploached by a group of young officers as he was leaving his office for the outside. After 
listening to the pleas of his subordinates, he hurriedly left the room without committing himself. (Statement by Lt. 
Col. Takeshita, previously cited.) (2) Anami visited Suzuki's official residence at 1130, 12 August. DOJei-Tsuzuri 
IfJr¥Ul (Record of the Movements of Cabinet Ministers.) This record was kept by the Political Affairs Section of the 
Tokyo Kempeitai Headquarters. (3) Foreign Minister Togo told Matsumoto late in the afternoon of 12 August 
that he feared Suzuki had been influenced by Anami and Hiranuma not to accept the broadcast Allied reply. (Statement 
by Shunichi Matsumoto, Foreign Vice-Minister, May-Aug 45.) 
718

[719면]
ances of his support in the event further opposition developed over the interpretations put 
on the Allied communication. Togo, while 
confident of his assessment of the Allied reply 
-that is, the Allies eventually would allow the 
Emperor to remain-feared that the opposition might seize upon Paragraph Four'" as an 
argument against capitulation, and thus disrupt 
the existing unanimity in Government councils. 
Meanwhile, Navy Minister Y onai, infuriated by reports that Toyoda had joined Umezu 
in the palace protestation, reprimanded him 
for his "thoughtless and irresponsible" act. 
It was to guard against such actions, he pointed out angrily, that the Navy only a day 
earlier had instructed local commanders to 
keep a strict watch over the activities of their 
subordinates. ,,. 
The repercussions of the Allied broadcasts 
became more manifest in Japanese political 
circles that afternoon. At 1250, Baron Hiranuma, President of the Privy Council who 
enjoyed a wide personal following in ultranationalistic groups, called on the Premier, 
and later, on the Lord Keeper of the 
Privy Seal, to register his opposition to the 
Allied reply. Hiranuma urged both Suzuki 
and Kido to press the United States for a 
clarification on its ultimate position "is-a-,,;s 
the Emperor disclosing at the same time that 
the worst possible interpretations were being put 
on the Allir.d broadcasts. '" 
The Emperor, undeterred by the impassioned pleas of the High Command representatives summoned the Imperial princes and the 
families of the princes of the blood to a Palace 
meeting at 1500 to solicit their support in his 
resolve for peace. The meeting was to last for 
nearly three hours, during the course of which 
he reaffirmed his determination to end the war. 
At that same hour, the Cabinet, without waiting 
for the formal Allied communication, was 
called into an extraordinary session at the 
Premier's official residence to exchange opinions 
on the broadcast reply. 
Foreign Minister Togo, reporting on the 
broadcast text, admitted at the outset that the 
Allied terms could not be considered satisfactory in every respect, but that to make any 
request for clarification of the Emperor's status 
or to submit additional reservations would be 
dangerous. He said that such action could 
be interpreted by the Allies as an indication 
of Japan's intention to break off negotiations. 
Togo argued at length that however odious 
and unpleasant were the Allied terms, especially those assigning the position of the Emperor, 
the fulfillment of the provisions embodied in 
Paragraphs One and Two, not to mention the 
all-important Paragraph Four, would, in effect, 
mean that the status of the Emperor would 
remain unchanged. ,,. 
173 Paragraph Four: "The ultimate form of Government of Japan shall, in accordance with the Potsdam 
Declaration, be established by the freely expressed will of the Japanese people." The military feared that this clause 
implied an ultimate change in the statutory position of the Emperor. Togo and his supporters argued that this paragraph 
should be interpreted to mean that the Japanese themselves would be permitted to decide what form of government they 
wanted and that such being the case it was inconceivable that the Japanese would desire any fundamental change in the 
Emperor System. Togo Memoirs, op. cit., pp. 23-4. 
174 Statements by Vice Adm. Hoshina and Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, previously cited. 
175 By this time the news of the secret peace negotiations were beginning to leak out to the public, and the 
Government was subject to both threats and encouragement. Handbill s began appearing in the streets of Tokyo with 
the declaration: II Down with the Badoglio regime of Suzuki .Togo.Yo nai." 
176 The statement in the Allied answer, based on the Potsdam Declaration, which provided that the ultimate 
form of Government of Japan was to be determined by the freely expressed will of the Japanese people indicated that 
the Emperor system was not to be abolished, but rather, was clear to those who knew the Japanese people, that it was 
to be preserved. If the Emperor system were accepted, it naturally followed that the current position of the Emperor 
would likewise be accepted. (Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited.) 
719

[720면]
Original PaintiDi: by M. Terauchi 
PLATE NO. ,66 
Paying Homage to Nation's War Dead, Yasukuni Shrine

[721면]
War Minister Anami, together with Home 
Minister Abe and Justice Minister Matsuzaka, 
argued that no such interpretation could be 
placed on the Allied rep!y and insisted that 
further inquiries be made. Anami further 
argued for the attachment of two conditions 
governing disarmament and occupation, which 
had been shelved previously. 
But more disconcerting to Togo and the 
peace bloc than the indefinitive arguments 
was the surprising, stiffening attitude of Suzuki 
as the deliberations progressed. Suzuki, revealing dissatisfaction with the Allied reply, 
stated bluntly that there was no alternative but 
to continue the war. Togo replied sharply 
that Japan should not continue the war irresponsibly and that unless there were some 
prospects of victory the Government should 
forge ahead with its peace negotiations. 
Suzuki's unexpected wavering was a sharp 
disappointment to Togo, who now was virtual ly fighting a single-handed battle. It was past 
1725; the Cabinet had been wrangling heatedly for more than two hours. Fearing that any 
further discussion would end in a victory for 
the continued-war faction, as symbolized by 
Anami, Togo suggested that the meeting adjourn until a formal communication had been 
received from the Allies. 
Following the meeting, Togo upbraided 
Suzuki for his vacillation and warned that he 
would take the issue personally to the Emperor if the. Premier persisted on talking of 
continued war. '77 Togo then returned to the 
Foreign Office and conferred with his aide, 
Matsumoto, at which time it was decided to 
withhold news of the expected Allied reply 
until the peace faction could induce Suzuki to 
recant. Both Togo and Matsumoto felt that 
to reopen the deliberations that same night 
under such adverse circumstances would be 
fatal. ,,. 
At 1830, Togo called at the Imperial Palace 
where he urged Kido to exercise his influence 
in swinging Suzuki back to the peace fold. 
The Foreign Minister expressed doubt that the 
peace moves could be successfully culminated 
unless immediate action was taken. 
In the meantime, the formal Allied reply, 
dated 11 August and signed by U. S. Secretary 
of State James F. Byrnes on behalf of the Allied Governments, was received officially by the 
Foreign Office, almost 12 hours after its dispatch from . Berne, Switzerland. The communication was found to be identical with the 
broadcast text from San Francisco, but its 
receipt was kept secret. 
Later that evening, at 2130 , Suzuki was 
prevailed upon by Kido to accept Togo's interpretation of the Allied terms and to go 
ahead resolutely on that basis. Suzuki was 
warned that continued resistance would only 
compound Japan's misery and that any hesitation or wavering at this point would be extremely hazardous. Suzuki concurred with 
Kido.'" 
At 0210, 13 August, the Foreign Office 
received an urgent cablegram from Suemasa 
Okamoto, the Japanese Minister to Sweden, 
which reported that the United States, in 
177 Statement by Foreign Minister Togo, previously cited. 
178 Statement by Foreign Vice~ Minister Matsumoto, previously cited. 
179 (I) The Allied reply was received by the Foreign Office message center at 1840' It had been dispatched 
from Berne by the Japanese Minister in Switzerland at 2324 , II August (0724 , 12 August, Tokyo Time.) Foreign 
Office Radios, op. cit., Japanese Minister Kase's Radiogram Relaying Byrnes Reply, 12 Aug 45. (2) Upon specific 
instructions from the Foreign Vice-l\!linister , Akita Oe, Chief of Radio Section, stamped the time of official receipt of 
the message as 0740, 13 August. News of the receipt was withheld so !hat the peace faction in the Foreign Office 
could martial their forces for the impending showdown on the surrender issue. (Statement by Foreign Vice-Minister 
Matsumoto, previously cited.) 
.So Affidavit of Kido, 0p. cit., IMTFE Record, PP' 3', .85- .86. 
721

[722면]
mapping the reply to the surrender offer, had 
stoutly resisted heavy pressures by the Soviet 
Union and China for outright removal of the 
Emperor.'" 
Armed with this telegram, Matsumoto, on 
his own initiative, hurriedly conferred with 
Sakomizu and then with the Premier, pointing 
out that the message, in effect, supported 
Togo's strong contention that any attempt 
by Japan to clarify the Emperor issue would 
result in a severance of the negotiations. 
He warned that to quibble over terms would 
only be playing into the hands of the intransigent elements in the Allied camp who 
were bitterly opposed to the retention of the 
Emperor system. Suzuki agreed promptly to 
accept the Allied terms. 
At 0730, Anami paid an unexpected call on 
Kido and restated his objections to Paragraph 
Four. Kido pointed out that should Japan 
refuse to accept the Allied terms she would do 
so without any valid reason, and emphasized 
that the Allies would find it difficult to understand the change in attitude . This reaction, 
he concluded, would do more harm than good. 
They parted without agreement. In the meantime, the Emperor was informed by the Foreign 
Minister that the Allied note was identical in 
wording to the broadcast reply. 
At 0900, Suzuki fortified with renewed 
determination from the night before, convoked 
an urgent meeting of the six leaders of the 
Supreme War Direction Council-its first on 
the Allied reply. As had been the case of 
the 9 August meeting, the deliberations were 
characterized by violent clashes of opinion , and 
the same cleavage persisted with the Premier, 
Navy and Foreign Ministers aligned on one side 
and the War Minister and the ChIefs of the 
Army and Navy General Staffs on the other. 
Anami, Umezu and Toyoda argued it was 
inconceivable that the authority of the Emperor 
should be subjected to the restrictions imposed 
by the Allied supreme commander. They 
emphatically objected to Paragraph Four, expressing the fear that the ultimate expression 
of the people's will would be coercively 
channelled by the occupying powers. The 
negotiations, they insisted, must be continued 
until there was no doubt as to the Emperor's 
position. 
Suzuki, Togo and Y onai explained that the 
Allied demands were reasonable since the 
limitations to be imposed by the Allied Occupation commander on the Emperor's prerogatives would only be within the sphere of the 
fulfillment of the surrender terms. They argued 
further that the clause governing the ultimate 
form of government was an implied guarantee 
that the Japanese people would not be coerced 
by the Allies. They cited the case of the 
Saar plebiscite, calling attention to the fact that 
the outcome of this issue would depend solely 
upon the Japanese people themselves. To 
attempt any further negotiations, they maintained adamantly, would only imperil Japan's 
final chance to sue for peace. 
The cleavage widened rather than narrowed 
as the procrastinating debate continued. With 
the six leaders showing no sign of reaching an 
agreement, Suzuki called an adjournment of 
the session at 1500 and ordered a full Cabinet 
meeting for 1600 hours. The arena of discussion again shifted back to the Cabinet. 
This time, Premier Suzuki took a more 
positive and aggressive role in the disCUSSIOns. He asked each member of his 
Cabinet to express his real feelings on the 
Allied offer. The majority favored outright 
acceptance. Home Minister Abe and Justice 
Minister Matsuzaka , who earlier had lined up 
with Anami in opposing the Allied terms, 
.81 Foreign Office Radios, op. cit., copy of telegram received by Foreign Office at 0210, 13 August, from 
Suemasa Okamoto , Japanese Minister to Sweden. 
722

[723면]
agreed eventually to leave the final decision up 
to the Emperor. 
Anami alone stubbornly refused to back 
down. Moreover, he insisted on appending 
the two conditions governing self-disarmament 
and the Allied occupatIon of the homeland. 
On this point, Togo again maintained that the 
conditions should. be proposed separately as 
mere solicitations, a proposal which most of 
the Ministers supported. He warned repeatedly 
that insistence on further negotiations might 
allow time for opposition to gain strength in 
the Allied camp to the retention of any form 
of the Imperial family system. Thus. the 
Cabinet deliberated inconclusively again for 
more than three hours before adjournment .••• 
That same afternoon Japanese monitors 
heard U. S. broadcasts in which charges were 
renewed that the Japanese Government was 
deliberately delaying a reply. American carrier 
aircraft meanwhile struck viciously in increasingly bold sweeps throughout the Kanto area. 
Enemy carrier strikes were also made in other 
areas of northern Japan. 
The surrender discussions had now been 
deadlocked for more than four days, and the 
hour of decision had arrived . The Premier, 
who had thus far failed by persuasion and 
arguments to steer the Cabinet and the Big 
Six council, urgently sought to settle the 
matter once and for all at what he hoped would 
be a conclusive meeting in the Emperor's 
presence. The War Minister and the Chiefs 
of the Army and Navy General Staffs, however, 
refused to sanction Suzuki 's request for an 
Imperial conference. "J 
An hour after the Cabinet had adjourned at 
1930 , Umezu , Toyoda and Togo met at the 
Premier's official residence. This unscheduled 
meeting, urged by both Chiefs of General 
Staffs, continued for two hours and was 
merely a futile repetition of the old arguments. The two Chiefs of General Staff 
refused to accept T ogo's interpretation of the 
Allied reply and pressed him to request the 
American Covernment to confirm his interpretatIon . Togo desisted, declaring that such a 
move would be construed as a refusal of the 
proffered terms and thus irreparably wreck 
Japan's last diplomatic chances. 
Meanwhile, at the War Minister's official 
residence at Miyakezaka , Anami was closeted 
with several of his subordinates in a meeting 
beginning at 2000, 13 August, to hear a plan 
for a coup ({ etat. According to this plan the 
coup was to be carried out after obtain ing 
approval from both the War Minister and the 
Chief of Army General Staff. The officials, 
representing the bitter-end resistance faction, 
attempted in vain to secure a clear-cut 
commitment from Anami, and the meeting 
broke up with an assurance by the War 
Minister that a definite reply would be forthcoming "tomorrow." lSi 
182 Record of the Termination of the War, op. cit" pp. 138144. 
183 Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, while successful in his maneuver of the 9th to obtain prior consent by 
Umezu and Toyada to the convocation of an Imperial conference, was unable to do so on the 13th. On the morning 
of the 13th, officials of the War Min istry and the Army and Navy General Staffs agreed not to sanction an Imperial 
meeting until the Big Six Council had agreed unanimously on the surrender issue. The War Min ister, who had 
steadfastly resisted the peace moves in the Council and Cabinet debates, insisted that the surrender issue should be 
resolved by the members of the Council and the Cabinet and that invocation of the Emperor's decision should be 
avoided as far as possible. (Statement by Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakom izu, previously cited.) 
184 A half-dozen officers holding key positions in the Mil itary Affairs Bureau of t he W ar Ministry, including 
Majot Hatanaka (who later was to become one of the ringleaders in the Palace revo lt), called on Anami at 2 000 hours, 
13 Augu st, bearing plans for a large-scale coup J't.tat. The plan roughly was as follows: (a) The aim to elicit ftom 
the Emperor sanction to continue negotiations until the desired peace conditions were met: (b) The forces to be 
used ; the 1St Imperial Guards Division and the Twelfth Area Army: (c) Course of action; the bitter-end 
723

[724면]
Early on the morning of 14 August, American planes dropped over Japanese cities, including Tokyo, leaflets containing the Japanese 
Government's offer of 10 August to accept the 
Potsdam terms and the Allied reply written in 
Japanese. The secret negotiations, which the 
Government had tried to conceal from the 
public, were now revealed. 
At 0830, Kido, caxrying one of the leaflets, 
went directly to the Emperor and urgently 
advised him to take prompt action. Explaining he feared the leaflets would have a profound 
effect on the armed forces and on the people, 
he emphasized that every moment peace was 
delayed was dangerous. He pointed out the 
humiliating effect the enemy's disclosure of the 
Cabinet's secret maneuvers would have on the 
homeland troops who were being deployed 
against an invasion, stressing that their attitude 
would give the extremists a powerful weapon 
with which to oppose the Emperor's will to sue 
for peace. It was imperative, therefore, that 
the Emperor declare war be ended immediately 
lest he might lose control of the armed forces 
in the field. The Emperor readily agreed. 
Soon after the audience, Kido conferred 
with Premier Suzuki who had come to the 
Palace to seek the Emperor's assistance in 
convoking an Imperial conference. Suzuki 
revealed the Government's helpless position 
resulting from the unyielding attitude of the 
Chiefs of Army and Navy General StallS. Both 
he and Kido agreed it was useless to engage in 
further discussions and that in view of the 
increasingly perilous situation a final showdown 
was immediately necessary. Both men then 
held a joint audience with the Emperor shortly 
before 0900 and petitioned him to convoke on 
his own initiative an Imperial conference in 
defiance of a time-honored precedent .• 8, 
At 1000, the Emperor, in furtherance of his 
peace resolution, summoned Fleet Admiral 
Osami Nagano, Field Marshals Sugiyama and 
Shunroku Hata, the highest ranking military 
men present in the homeland at the time, and 
requested them to secure the obedient compliance of the armed forces to his surrender 
decision .. 86 
Thus occurred the climactic development 
when the full Cabinet, the two Chiefs of the 
Army and Navy General Staffs, the President of 
the Privy Council, and the secretaries of the 
Supreme War Direction Council were urgently 
summoned to assemble at the Imperial Palace. 
The Cabinet Ministers had gathered at the 
Premier's official residence in a meeting scheduled for 1000, and when they received the 
Imperial summons they had no time to change 
to court clothing, so they were given special 
permission to proceed to the palace in their 
resistance faction, taking advantage of a provision in the Imperial Ordinance concerning martial law, which authorizes 
local garrison commanders to prodair:n martial law provisionally withom Imperial sanction in the case of emergency, 
was to place the whole Tokyo area under martial law. By so doing, the Emperor would be isolated from the peace 
group and would be requested to issue such order as the Army might desire. (d) Prerequisites; the War Minister, 
the Chief of the Army General Staff, the Commander of the Eastern District Army, and the Commander of the 1St 
Imperial Guards Division should aU agree to the plan. Anami, while appearing favorably disposed to the plan, begged 
for time to make a final decision and said, " I will give you a definite reply tomorrow morning after I have thought it 
over." (Statement by Lt. Col. Inaba, previously cited. Inaba was one of six members who discussed the coup d'etat plan.) 
185 In accordance with custom, more rigidly observed in recent years, an Imperial conference was convoked upon 
the joint request of the Premier and the Chiefs of the Army and Navy General Staffs and only after they had agreed 
upon the issues. This left: the Emperor with virtually no necessity to express his own opinion. Under the circum· 
stances, it was almost unthinkable that an Imperial conference would be convoked without the previous consent of the 
High Command. 
186 The developments noted on this page are taken from material found in; (I) Affidavit of Kido, op. cit-, 
pp. 31, I~-I9I . (2) Statement by Marquis Kido, previously cited. 
724

[725면]
regular business suits. 
The final pre-surrender conference began 
at 1100 in the same air raid shelter in the 
Palace where, on !rIO August, the Emperor 
had revealed unmistakab ly his desire for peace. 
Suzuki opened the meeting with a brief review 
of developments since 10 August . The Premier 
noted that most of the Cabinet members were 
in favor of accepting the Potsdam terms, but 
there had been no unanimity . He then proposed that the Emperor hear the opposing 
views before making a final decision. He 
named in tum the Chief of the Army General 
Staff, the Chief of the Navy General Staff, and 
the War Minister to express their views. 
The three hold-outs voiced the same 
opinions and tearfully pleaded for further 
inquiries of the Allies, asserting that under the 
stated terms of the Byrnes' communication it 
would be difficult for Japan to preserve her 
national polity. If that were not possible, 
they concluded it would be better to continue 
the war. No others were called upon by the 
Premier to speak. 
The Emperor then broke the grim silence 
and poignantly reiterated the Imperial wish, his 
voice trembling with emotion. He desired 
that all members agree with him. He said he 
waS of the opinion that the Allied reply was 
satisfactory; that this opinion was unchanged 
since 10 August; and that his decision was 
based on a studied observation of the world 
and domestic situations. Continued war, he 
emphasized again, would mean ultimate destruction of Japan, whereas otherwise the 
nation's revival could be assured as long as 
the "seeds and source" existed. He pleaded 
with his audience to put aside personal sentiments. 
The Emperor spoke with choked emotion .as 
he referred to the plight of the war sufferers 
and the families of the war dead and said he 
would do everything he could for their consolation. While admitting fear that the shock of 
surrender would be especially far-reaching in the 
armed forces, the Emperor emphasized he was 
ready to appeal directly to his troops if necessary- he was willing to undertake any task 
which would facilitate the conclusion of 
hostilities .• s, 
Fina,ly, he offered to make a radio broadcast 
to the people of his decision to surrender and 
asked his Ministers to draw up a rescript ending the war. The attendants wept aloud at 
the Emperor's unprecedented plea. Suzuki 
then assured the' Emperor a rescript would be 
prepared immediately. The historic Imperial 
conference was concluded at noon. ,88 
Japan's Reply to Final Allied Offer 
With the Imperial verdict unequivocally 
stated , the Cabinet members, upon whom lay 
the official responsibility for surrender, met at 
the Premier's official residence at 1300 to 
give the finishing touches to a draft Imp~rial 
Rescript which had been under preparation by 
the Cabinet secretariat since the Imperial 
conference of 10 August. Emphasis was placed 
on the Emperor's statements he had made at 
the Imperial conference on 10 August. 
Although it had been feared by many Cabinet members that Anami might tender his 
resignation at this critical moment and thus 
compel the whole Cabinet to collapse, the War 
Minister chatted amiably with his colleagues, 
187 Following the conference, the Emperor revealed to the War and Navy Ministers of his readiness to dispatch 
his aide-de-camps to Army and Navy headquarters to appeal to the armed forces. Navy Minister Yonai prompdy 
declined the oifer, saying he would do his utmost to secure the J.~avy·s compliance with the Imperial wish for surrender. 
War Minister Anami followed suit. Notes on the Termination of the War , op. cit., p. 59. 
,88 (,) Ibid., pp. 58-9, (2) Truth of rhe Surrender Period, op. cit. Asahi Newspaper, Tokyo, '91an 46. 
725

[726면]
and participated actively in the discussions on 
the Rescript . If the outcome had been a crushing 
defeat for the War Minister , he showed no 
outwards signs of it.''' 
At 2IOO , after nearly eight hour s of continuous discussion, the Cabinet finished the wording of the draft rescript, after which it was 
taken to the Emperor immediately by the 
Premier for his seal and signature. The 
Ministers then counter· signed the Rescript to 
formalize the Emperor's surrender decision. It 
was already 2250 . At that same moment , the 
Emperor was recording his impending broadcast message on a phonograph disc in the 
room of the Imperial Household Ministry . At 
2300 , the Imperial Rescript was ordered to be 
proclaimed but because of printing difficulties 
it was not until the following day that the official copies were distributed. Japan's surrender, 
however, had become effective at 2300 , I4 
August.· .. 
With the promulgation of the Rescript , the 
following telegram, which had been prepared 
by Togo earlier in consultation with Foreign 
Office experts , was swiftly dispatched to the 
four Allied Governments through the facilities 
of the Swiss Government: ••• 
With reference to the Japanese Goyernmenfs nOle 
of August 10 regarding its acceptcz1ICe of the pro)'isions 
of the Potsdam Declaration and the reply of the 
Governments of the United States, Great Britain, the 
So.iet Union and China sent by the American 
Secretary of State Brmes under the date of August 
II, the Japan ese GOl'ernment has the honor to communicate to the Go)'emments of the four Powers 
as follows: 
I . His Majesty the Emperor has issued an Imperial 
Rescript regarding Japan's acceptance of the pro.mons 
of the Potsdam Declaration. 
2. His Majesty the Emperor is prepared to authorize and ensure the signature by His Government 
and the Imperial General Headquarters of the 
necessary terms for carrying out the pro)'isiolls of the 
Potsdam Declaration. His Majesty is also prepared 
to issue his commands to all the military, nd'JIal dnd 
air authorities of Japan and all forces under their 
(O"tro/ where'Yer located to cease acti"e operations, to 
surrender arms aud to issue such other orders as tntly 
be required by the Supreme Commander of the Allied 
Powers for the execut£on of the abo}le-menhoned terms. 
The long internal struggle was over. The 
Emperor's will had prevailed, and the die was 
cast for peace. 
189 As the Army's top agent in the Cabinet, Anami was fully cognizant of both the direction being taken by the 
Government and the widespread desire within the Army for the continuation of the war. At the same time, while 
vigorously championing the cause of bitter-end resistance in the conference discussions , he did. not disclose the Cabinet's 
peace intentions to the Army staff until 10 Augu st, but took full responsibility for his own actions. Anami could have 
at any time wrecked the Cabinet by resigning or effecting a coup d' ~tat, and thus forced a fight to the finish, but he 
was reluctant to oppose what were the explicit wishes of the Emperor. (I) Statements by Marquis Kido, Chief Cabinet 
Secretary Sakomizu, Foreign Minister Togo and Lt. Col. Takeshita, all previonsly cited. (2) Record on the Termination of the War, op. cit., pp. 173- 4' (3) Fall of the Japanese Army, op. cit., p. 51. (4) "Mitsumasa Yonai and 
Korechika Anami ," by Seizo Sakonji , Maru magazine, Sep 49. 
726 
190 Statement by Chief Cabinet Secretary Sakomizu, previously cited. 
191 T~ Axis in D~feat, op. cit., pp. 31-2 .