[727면]
CHAPTER XXI 
RETURN TO PEACE 
Imperial Announcement of Surrender 
With the promulgation late on '4 August 
of the Emperor's Rescript accepting the Allied 
surrender terms, Japan's decision to capitulate 
had become final. But not until thirteen hours 
later did the nation at large learn the tragic and 
stunning news that the Empire had bowed in 
defeat for the first time in its recorded history.' 
From early morning on '5 August, radio 
stations throughout the country alerted the 
people to stand by for an important broadcast 
at ,2 o'clock noon. In Tokyo and other cities, 
special preparations were hastily carried out to 
ensure that a maximum number of people would 
hear the broadcast. Loudspeaker s were set up 
in public places as well as in government and 
private offices where most employees stayed 
during the noon hour to eat meager box lunches. 
As the time for the broadcast drew near, 
tense expectancy gripped the nation . In homes, 
offices and factories and on city ·streets through. 
out the land, people paused to gather near 
radios or loudspeakers . Few outside of 
limited official and press circles had any inkling 
of what was to come. The vast majority of 
the nation , even though feeling that defeat 
could not be far off, expected that they were 
about to hear a new exhortation to fight to the 
death or the announcement of an Imperial 
declaration of war on Soviet Russia. 
The strident note of the noon time-signal 
was followed by the muted strains of the national 
anthem . Then , listeners heard State Minister 
Shimomura , President of the Cabinet Information Board, announce that the next voice would 
be that of His Majesty the Emperor. People 
caught their breaths in quick surprise for never 
before had the Emperor spoken directly to his 
subjects by radio. They listened in tense silence 
as the Emp eror's voice came over the air, reading 
the solemn and fateful words of the Imp erial 
Rescript :' 
After pondering deeply the general trend of the 
'World rituatjoll and the actual state of Our Empire, 
We ha" decided to effect a settlement of the present 
crisis by resort to all extraordiudTY measure. To OUT 
good and loyal subjects, we hereby C01l" y Our will. 
We hd'Ye commanded Our GO')lerument to communi· 
cate to th e Go>emments of the U1lited States, Great 
Britai1l, Chi,,,, a1ld the So.iet Union that Our Empire 
accepts the terms of their joi1lt Dec/aratio1l. 
To stri" fo r the comm01l prosperity a1ld happineJJ 
of all 1lations as well as the security and well·being 0/ 
Our subjects is the solemn obligation handed down to 
Us by Our Imperial Ancestors, and We keep it c/ose 
to heart. Indeed, We declared war 071 America and 
Britain out of OUT si7lcere desire to eusure }lzpa1.' s 
This chapter was originally prepared in Japanese by Rear Adm . Katsuhei Nakamura, Imperial Japanese Navy. 
Duty assignments of this officer were as follows: Chief Secretary, Navy Minisrry, 5 Nov 40-24 Feb 43 j Commander, 
H . M. S. Myoko, 2 Mar-Io Dec 43 j Naval Attache, Japanese Embassy at Nanking, and concurrently Vice-Chief of 
Staff, China Area Fleet, 4 Jan-23 Jul 44 j Direcrer, General Affairs Bureau, Navy Aeronautical Department, 7 Aug 
44-5 Sep 45· All source materials cited in this chapter are located in G-2 Historical Section Files, GHQ FEe. 
2 Shosho j~ (Imperial Remipr) '4 Aug 45. (Cf. Plate No. ,67) 
727

[728면]
self-preUT>aticm and the ltabilization of &t Ana_ 
It 'Was not OUT ;UlentjOT' either to infringe upo" the 
sol'ereignty of other lIatio,u OT to seek territorial 
aggrandizem"'t. 
The hOltilitieI ha>e now continued for nearly four 
yeaTI. Despite the gallant fighting of the Officm and 
M", of Our Army and Na.y, the diligence and 
aIIiduity of Our IeT>antI of State, and the deyoted 
Ie",ice of Our hundred million IUbjeclI----deIpite the 
beIt efforii of all-the war hdI not neceIIarily de>eloped in Our fa.or, and the g",eral world ntuabon 
also is not to japau 's adYdutdge.3 Furthermore, the 
enemy hal begun to employ a new and cruel bomb 
which kilh and maim! the iWlOcent and the power of 
which to wreak deItruction iI truly incalculable. 
Should We continue to fight, the ultimate relult 
would be not only the obliteration of the race but the 
extinction of humdJl civilization. Then, how should 
We be able to Ia.e the milliotu of Our rubjecii and 
make atonement to the hallowed IpiritI of Our Imperial 
AnceItorI? That iI why We ha>e commanded the 
Imperial GOYemm",t to comply with the term! of the 
Joint Declaration of the PowerI. 
To thOle nabom whicn, aI Our allieI, ha>e Iteadfaltly cooperated with the Empire for the emancipation 
of Ealt Ana, We cannot but expreII Our deep regret. 
Aho, the thought of Our rubjecii who ha>e fall", on 
the field of battle or met untimely death while performing their appointed tdIkI, and the thought of their 
berea>ed farmlieI, retodI Our heart, and We feel 
profound IOlicitude for the woutoded and for all warruffererI who haYe 10It their homeI atod li.elihood. 
The IUffering atod hardlbip which Our nation yet 
mu,t undergo will certainly be great. We are keenly 
aware of the jrmermost feelings of all ye, Our subjects. 
HfYWe1Ier, it is according to the dictates of b'me and 
fate that We haye remlYed, by "oduring the unendurable and bearing the unbearable, to pd>e the tIIay for 
a grand peace for all g"leratiom to come_ 
Sittee it haI been pOIIible to preIeT>e the Itructure 
of the Imperial State, We Ihall alwaYI be with ye, Our 
good arod loyal rubjeclI, placing Our trwt in your 
sillurity and integrity. Beware most strictly of any 
outbUTIt of emotion which may ",getoder needlm 
complications, and refrain from !raterMI contmsion 
and Itrife which may creare con[wion, lead ye dItray 
and cauIe ye to 10Ie the confidence of the world. Let 
the nation continue as one family from generation to 
generation with untlla.ering faith in the imperilhability 
of Our di.ine latod and eyer mindful of iII hea.y burden 
of relponnbility atod the long road ahead. Turn your 
full Itrength to the tdIk of building a new future. 
Culti.ate the waYI of rectitude, fOlter nobility of spirit, 
and work with relo/ution IO that ye may enhattee the 
innate glory of the Imperial State and keep pace with 
the progreII of the tIIorld. We charge ye, Our loyal 
IUbjeclI, to carry out faithfully Our will_ 
The Government had taken special pains to 
phrase the Imperial message in such a way as 
to soften the impact of surrender on the nation 
at large. The word "surrender" itself had 
been studiously avoided. Nevertheless , the 
import of the Emperor's words was ·painfully 
clear to all who heard them . Even those who 
did not know what the] oint Declaration of the 
Allied Powers signified-and there were many 
such in the rural areas-swiftly understood 
that the Emperor was announcing the termination of hostilities on terms laid down by the 
enemy. Japan, in short, was accepting final 
defeat after more than three and a half years of 
costly fighting and hard sacrifice.-
Although the horrible destruction of Hiro3 This was one of the mos~ <:ontroversial passages in the Rescript. As originally drafted for Cabinet approval, it 
read : U Despite the gallant fighting of the Officers and Men of Our Army and Navy .. . . t~ war situation worI~ns 
from day /0 ddY, and the general world situation also is not to Japan's advantage." During the Cabinet discussion of 
the text on the afternoon of 14 August, War Minister Anami objected to this wording as carrying too strong an implication of the total defeat of the Japanese armed forces. A compromise was finally reached whereby the italicized 
passage was amended to read, II th~ war has not ntctssdrily d~aoptd in OUT ja'Yor." ShuItnk, A!S~ia (Record of the Termination of the War) by Hiroshi (Kainan) Shimomura, Oct 48, p. 161. 
4 Owing to poor radio reception, there were some outlying-districts in which the Emperor's broadcast was not 
understood and many thought that they were being urged to fight on. Press publication of the Imperial Rescript, 
however, prompdy corrected this misunderstanding. 
728

[729면]
~ .. .. R 1] I 
'" 
~ l*- I • 
It ' ... ' III =- ~ I( l~ 
'1 ~ ;,t "" J... t. -f .. ' , .... t;- Il] ~ 3 1: ..- " ;~ 'T, 
:i" 'f it ~ tt I JA..- I 'f ~ : '/ ¥!, ill ..- 7 
7 ~ 0;1 =-
.~ 
~ 
" 
=- • 
~ ~1I ft 
l( -to II ill ~ ... 
.j)p - T 7 ~ "- l( :t MI ~ f: *- $Ii 1] 
'" tI, n. W-i/ n ;. ... .f- =- ~ 
* =- "- =- 'f "* ,.". / iff I .~. 
ig -T ~U 1<. '1 7 1'. ~~ =- ill ,~ 
l! ~ =- ,,( f.f. 'f *. -;0 ~ ! ~ , , St Z ,/ ~~ -to I -t -to 7 ~ ~ ~ ~ - .t; ... " JiJ # 'f 7- =- ft J... 'f 
'" 
7 :J!' '1 f- ~ -+ I if: m ;. to " 'If: ~ -\' + H: =- "- 'f • Ifl .. 
.if. # 7 {j~ it '" 
l~ I.- 5i :t 7 I' {~ f'!, =- ,/ It ill 13 
" .- l' 
~, 
'" ,~ I ? I I.- "- ~ 7 ," ..- JIi 1:. I 
11 ~ '1 til ~ ,t- I.- ;¥ '" ~ I*- ~ 1f. :x, =- ill J~ t+- Jt 
ft I =- ;, ~ 7 -f ~ 1) f- t ~ X- I 
* 
l!9 II*-+ -It ;r, t.t + ~ t!' ~ =- .. A- I 4j ~ €I ~ ill ~ 
l!9 
t. ~ i.r( 4j ,~ I( ~ .1. 14 
• iii ~ ,it,' f'.. .(;- I =- =-EJ tI!' '1 'f M " :x, I IJ n, I 7 ;1., =- ~ .. 1'1 .. 
W- It *L II 1!!1 ~ 'f ~ 
I ;;. 1/ !\ .. 5i 11t .1. .~ ..->! He .Ii I 'f I =- I ... 
>! 1: =- t; ~ iI'I 8Il 'if ;:. 
* 
I 
=- 7 *. '*-
-'" 
~ :t II.- fil it 
it ;;. >! =- ~~ " l( ~ " 1: I 
l.- f- 'f it :x, -IJ 1] '! 1 l' '! 
-if' it j1, ~ It I!. t1 'f ,' ~ 
7 it '/ ~ i • * • I ~ fJ... 
"" 
it ... .. Ij ~ :x, o;t: • ~ :J 'f .. =-
* ," I :x, 
~ ~ '! I I =- it '" 
'! . ~. 
'f I: tI!' II ~ ~ tt '" ~t 
" ~ JIi ~. .11- !\ .. ~ or =- it ~ :x, IJ =- ~ 'J I*-~ ~ 
* 
-to 
• " 'f "'-* .. "" .. -if' 1'. I*- ..., 7 -I] ill f- -t J... 
• 
~ ~ 7 =-
"" 
% 1. 'l.- I.- i"f X- 7 11 I I*- ~ ~ 
*. I *- -I] .Ii 'f .. 'f 'f 'I.- 'f ~ :x, if: :t. I J ~t 
!. I -to 1/ ,!, , , 
• It ,.". , ' ,( 'f fro 'fI1I • 
? ;;. 
It !\ It 
"" 
~ I: III I: :x, ," ,( f-
" 
Z OJ 'f q IJ 11 Ii .1. tt " 
~ i,( 3 :x. .. + -IJ tt ill: I lI~ it =-
" 
l.- =- I*-
* 
f- IJ >ill • 
IJ it -t " .- ~ -I] ,tt. ill .. I.- JIi ; 
'f It 'II:. J... *I'#~ -if' ;, 
7 7 ~ 'It tI!' 'f. !\ I -I] =- l*- f. 'I.- + I*. 
"' Z I I =- IJ =- :t. ~~ -I] 'f ,.". 'I.-
-I; 1 '! i1I. .foj 7 ~ ;;. T =- If -if I I 
'! 'f ;t;.. :x, =- 7 I: 7- '! ~ 1- it :x, =- It 
'f :M; J... ," ;t;. :x, '! .. if; -I] 
'" .. -I] Ifl !\ it 7 :i: I1r .if I "'- ,. ;;. !\ t.l I!. -to It =--to ~ ;;. ;It 'f It I: =- t ~. I 
"" 
-
* -3 "* 7 =- r.II !\ ~ Jt t1. I 'f .. " i!II 7 . .;..'

[730면]
IMPERIAL RESCRIPT 
To OUT good and Loyal subjects: 
After pondering deeply the generaL tren ds of the world and the: actual condi tion s obtatnlOg in OUT 
Emp ire today, We have decided to effect a senlement of the present situatio n by resottlng to an 
extraordinary meas ure . 
We have. ordered Our Gov c:rnment to communicate to the Governments of the U nited States, Grut 
Brita in, Ch'i na and the: Soviet Union that OUT Empire accepts the provisions of their Joint Declaration . 
To strive for the commo n prosperity and happiness of all nations as well as the security and well .being 
of Our subjects is the solemn obligation which has been handed down by Our Imperial Ancestors, which 
We lay close to heart. Indeed, We declared war on America and Britain out of Our sincere desire to 
ensure Japan's self-prc:suvation and the stabilization of East Asia, it being far from Our thought either 
to infringe upon the sovereignity of other nattons or to embark upon territorial aggrandiztment. But 
now th.e war has lasted for nearly four years. Despite the best [hat has been done by evuy one - gallant 
fighting of military and naval fo rces , the diligence and assidu ity of Our servants of the State and the 
devoted service of Our one hundred million people , the war situation has not necessarily improved and 
the general trends of the world are also nOt to Japan's advantage . Moreover, the enemy has begun to 
employ a new and most cruel bomb, the power of which to do damage is indeed incalcul able , taking the 
toll of many Innocent lives. Should We continue to fight t It would nOI only result in an ultimate collapse 
and obliteration of the Japanese nation, but also it would lead to the total extinction of human civilization. 
Such being the case, bow are We to save the millions of Our suhjects. or to atone Ourselves before 
the hallowed spir its of Our lmper ial Ancestors ? This is the reason why We have ordered the acceptance 
of the provisions of the Joint Declaration of the Powers 
We cannot but express the deepest sense of regret [0 our Allied nations who have consistently cooperated with Ihe Empire towards the emanCipation of East ASia. The thought of those officers and 
men as well as others who have fallen in the 6elds of battle, those who died ~t their pOSts of duty, or 
those who met With untimely death and all the ir bereaved families, pains Our heart night and day . The 
welf are of the wounded and war-sufferers and of tho~e who have lost their home and livelihood are the 
objects of Our profound solicitude. The hardship s and sufferings to which Our narion is to be subjected 
hereafter will be certainly great. We are keenly aware of the inmost feellng~ of all ye, Our subjects . 
However , it is according to the dictatr of time and fate that We have resolved (0 pave the way for a 
grand peace for all the generauons to come by endUring the unendurable and suffer ing what IS IOsufferable . 
Hav ing been able to safeguard and maintain the structure of the Imperial Statt, We are always With 
ye, Our good and loyal subjects, relYlOg upon your sincerity and integrity. Beware most strictly of any 
outburst of emotion which may engender needless complicatio ns, or any fraternal contention and strife 
which may create confu sion, lead ye a.stray and cause ye to lose the confidence of the world _ Let the 
enure nation contin ue as one family from generation [0 generation, ever firm in ItS faith of the imperishableness of its divine land , and mindful of us heavy burden of responSibilities , and the long road before 
it. Unite your total strength to be devoted to the construction for the future . Cultivate the ways of 
rectitude ; foster nobility of spirit ; and work with resolution so as ye may enhance the innate glory of 
the Imperial State and keep pace with [he pro gress of the world. 
The [4th day of the 8th month of the 20th year of Showa 
Stgo .. ,ure 
SUZUK.1. Kantaro. Baron 
YONAL Mit!lumasa 
MATSUZAKA. Hlromasa 
ANAMI, Korechika 
TOYODA, TeiJlro 
OKADA. Tadahlko 
SAKURAI, Hvogoro 
SAKONjl. Mil.Sa.zo 
SHJMOMURA . Hlros/-u 
HIROSE. Toyouku 
OTA. Ko%o 
fSHIGLJRO . T aduuu 
ABE. Genlt. 
TOGO , Shigenori 
YASUI . TOJI 
KOHIY AMA . !'I.aOtO 
Offict 
Prime Mlnl.'uer 
Minister of Navy 
Mmi5rer of JustICe 
MmlStl!.r of War 
Miniluer (1£ MunUlon 
Minister of We fare 
MinISter of Slate 
Minl5ftr of State 
Minister d Statt 
Minister of Finance 
Minister of Education 
Mimster of Agriculture ",od Conllnn ce 
Minister of Hom!': Affairs 
Minister of Furctgn '\tralt'S 
Minister of State 
MiniSter of Trarupo}f[ilItion anJ ( :ommun1t;ation 
Dm~Fm 
~ '--
EJ >< X 
X X 
I

[731면]
PLATE NO. 167 
Imperial Rescript Ending the War

[732면]
shima and Nagasaki by the atom bomb , coupl ed 
with Soviet entry into the war, had increased 
popular realization that the war was lost, the 
sudden , grim news of capitulation caught the 
nation psycholo gically unprepar ed. So thor ough had been the indoctrination for a last-d itch 
defense of the homeland that many at first 
could not comprehend that Japan had surrendered. Then, as the meaning of the Emp eror's words sank in, the people were stunned and 
bewildered . 
Mingled with the sense of shock were grief, 
despair and disillusionment. To a proud and 
intensely patriotic people who had never before 
been conquered in war, defeat was a bitter pill 
to swallow. Many wept openly as they listened 
to the Emp eror's solemn announcement. Some 
felt swift anger against the nation's leaders and 
the fighting services for their failure to avert 
defeat; others blamed themselves for falling 
short in their war effort. Above all, there was 
a feeling of intense sympathy for the Emperor , 
who had been forced to take so tragic and painful a decision . 
Following the Emperor's broadcast, war 
factories throughout the country dismissed their 
workers and closed their doors . The newspapers , which had been ord ered to susp ~nd 
their customary morning editions, came out in 
the afternoon, all carrying the text of the 
Imp~ rial Rescript, an unabridged translation of 
the Potsdam D eclaration, and texts of the notes 
exchang ed with the Allied Powers. In Tokyo , 
throughout the afternoon , crowds of weeping 
citizens gathered in the vast plaza before the 
Imp ~ rial Palace and at the Meiji and Yasukuni 
Shrin es to bow in reverence and prayer. 
The shock and grief of the moment , combined with the dark uncertainty of the future , 
prevented any widespread feeling of relief at 
the termination of hostilities . Bombings and 
bloodshed were at an end, but defeat seemed 
likely to bring only a continuation of hardship 
and privation . Starvation already gripp ed the 
land . To this might now be added the 
breakdown of public discipline and order, acts 
of violence and oppression by the enemy forces 
of occupation, and a stagg ering burden of 
reparations . 
D espite the dark outlook, the nation drew 
solace and courage from the Emperor's assurance that he would remain to lead the people 
through the difficult period that lay ahead. 
His appeal for strict compliance with the Imperial will made a profound impression , and 
" Reverent Obedience to the Rescri pt" became 
the rallying cry with which the nation prepared 
to face the harsh consequences of capitulation. 
Three hours after the Emp eror' s broadcast, 
the Suzuki Cabinet, its difficult mission at last 
accomplished, tendered its collective resignation . 
The Premier stated that the Government, by 
resigning, meant to bear responsibility for 
its unprecedented action in app~ling to the 
Emperor to make the final surrender decision, 
and he declared that it was vitally necessary for 
younger leaders to take over the stup ~ ndous 
task of national reconstruction .' The Emp eror 
accepted the resignation but commanded the 
Government to remain in office until a new 
Cabinet could be formed. 
Broadcasting on the evening of the 15th, 
Premier Suzuki appealed to the nation to 
unite in absolute loyalty to the Throne in 
face of the grave national crisis. Japan, he 
stated, had accepted the terms of the Potsdam 
Declaration " fully confident that there will be 
no change in the sovereignty of the Emp oror." 
He emphasi zed further that His Majesty's 
decision to end the war had been taken out of 
compassion for his subjects and in careful consideration of existing circumstances. 
Addressing himself specifically to the members of the armed forces, the Premier voiced 
0; Letter of resignation submitted by Premier Suzuki (0 the Throne, 15 Aug 45. 
730

[733면]
full sympathy with their feelings regarding surrender_ He stressed, however, that it 
was the primary duty of the Emperor's subjects 
to assist in fostering the glory and prosp'<ity 
of the Throne and that this could be accomplished only through complete loyalry and 
obedience to the Imperial will. He concluded 
with this exhortation :. 
I hop, that the i"tri"sic sincerity of our people will 
be gi>en full expression i" the fulfillme"t of the terms 
of the Potsdam Declaratio", a"d that thereby we shall 
rpeedily regai" the confideuce of the world. Our 
primary concern must be to Ttltore the Empire to its 
proper place i" the world at quickly ar porsible through 
comaentioUf co"duct and the dirplay of the moral 
rtrength of our nation u,lder Imperial rule. To thir 
end we a"d rucceeding ge"eratio'if mUft labor mightily 
elM indorm'tably, uniting as oue family in faithful 
obre,."a"ce of the Imperial Rercript. 
Military Reaction 
The Emperor's personal radio message of the 
carefully phrased Rescript concerning the surrender decision was couched in almost the exact 
words used by him in the last Imperial conference. As the members of the Government had 
hoped, the message had the desired effect. 
The people at large, though shocked and griefstricken, were impressed that this decision 
represented the actual will of the Emperor 
himself rather than an act of the Government, 
which the sovereign had merely ratified. As 
the momentous day of 15 August came to a 
close, there was scarcely any doubt but that the 
nation as a whole would obediently accept the 
Imperial command. 
The reaction of the armed forces, however, 
was more dang erously problematical. Although 
the top leaders of both fighting services had 
finally bowed to the Emperor's will at the 
Imperial conference of 14 August, they themselves were deeply concerned over the possibility of action by the extremist elements within 
the Army and Nav y to defy the surrender 
decision . In fact, even before this decision was 
finally taken on the 14th, War Minister Anami 
was already aware that a coterie of young 
officers in the War Ministry and the Army 
General Staff was planning an armed coup 
d'etat for the purpose of forestalling surrender 
and establishing a military government which 
would continue the war.' 
This was obviously a situation fraught with 
danger. The Army leaders had held out 
until the very last moment against acceptance 
of the Potsdam terms, and they still might have 
blocked or seriously impeded the surrender by 
giving their sanctions to the coup d'etat plan. 
Nevertheless, when the final decision was taken 
at the Emperor's command, they loyally decided 
to obey and took swift action to ensure discipline 
6 Yomiuri-Hochi Shimbun IInl*~wrllll (Yomiu,i-Hochi Newspaper), Tokyo, '7 Aug 45. 
7 The ringleaders of the coup d'etdt plot were principally subordinate officers of the Military Affairs Bureau of 
the War Ministry but also included two oRicers of the Army General Staff. On the night of 13 August, five of the 
conspirators called on General Anami at his official residence and secretly disclosed their plans to him, seeking his 
approval. (Cf. Chapter XX, p. 66g) Anami was non-comittal at this time, but after conferring with General Umezu, Chief 
of the Army General Staff, the following morning, he told the plotters that the coup d'ttat must be abandoned in view 
of Umezu 's disapproval. Anami made no move to arrest the ringleaders, among whom was his own brother-in-law, 
but he ordered Lt. Gen. Sanji Okido, Commanding General, Army Military Police (Kempeitai) , and Lt. Gen. 
Takeshi Mori, Commanding General, 1st Imperial Guards Division, to exercise precautionary surveillance over them lest 
they proceed to act in defiance of his orders. Cooperation of the Guards Division , assigned to protection of the Imperial 
Palace, was vital to the roup {{ttat plan. Lt. Gen. Mori, on 12 August , had already rejected a request by the plotters 
for his support in executing the plan, but some of his staff officers had been independently won over by the conspirators. 
(Statements by Col. Saburo Hayash i, Private Secretary to War Minister Anami and Lt. Col. Masahiko Takeshita, 
f\1ilitary Affairs Bureau, War Ministry.) 
731

[734면]
, 
• 
, , 
PLATE NO, 168 
Scene in Front of Imperial Palace 
-.; , 
:< < ,,:. j!"t 
~I 
" 
· , 
" • • 
, . ' 
.' . 
•• , 
fi·

[735면]
and order throughout the Army. 
Following the final Imperial conference on 14 
August, the Army" Big Three "-Wa r Minister Anami, Chief of the Army General Staff 
Umezu, and Inspectorate-General of Military 
Training General Kenji Doihara -chanced to 
meet at the War Ministry together with Field 
Marshals Hata al).d Sugiyama, the top operational commanders of the Army forces in the 
homeland. These five men affixed their seals to 
a joint resolution pledging that· the Army would 
"conduct itself in accordance with the Imperial decision to the last." The resolution was 
endorsed immediately afterward by General 
Masakazu Kawabe, over-all command er of the 
Army air forces in the homeland. ' 
In accordance with this decision, General 
Anami and General Umezu both called meetings of their ranking subordinates during the 
afternoon of the 14th, notified them of the outcome of the final Imperial conference, and 
directed strict obedience to the Emperor's 
command.- A short while later, special instructions to the same effect were radioed to all top 
operational commanders (of General Army 
level) jointly in the names of the War Minister 
and Chief of Army General Staff. These instructions stated in part:' · 
1. Negotiations ha .. tak ... place with the enemy 
on the baJis of OUT conditions that the national polity 
be prere",ed and the Imperial domain mai,itained. 
The stipulat.o.u laid down by the ... em)" how .. er, 
reutiered the realization of these couditions extremely 
difficult, a,Jd for that reas01' we "igorously dud cousisteutly maiutajlled that these stJpulations were absolutely unacceptable. Although we reported to the 
Throne to this effect 011 'Yarious occasions, His Imperial 
Maj"ty n .. erthelm has decided to accept the terms of 
the Potsdam Declaration . ..... . 
2. The Imperial decision haJ been handed down. 
Ther efore, it) accordallCt with the Imperial will, it is 
imperati .. that all forces act to the ... d in such a way 
that no dishonor shall be brought to their glorious 
traditious and splendid record of meritorious ser'JIice, 
and that future g ... eratio.u of our race shall be deeply 
impressed. It iI eamestly desired that .. ery soldier, 
without exception, refrain absolutely from raJh beha.ior and demollJlrate at home a",1 abroad the 
.. erlasting fame and glory of the Imperial Army. 
Simultaneously with the action of the Army 
leaders, the Navy also took steps to ensure 
disciplined compliance with the surrender 
decision. At 1630 on 14 August, Navy Minister Y onai communicated this decision to his 
pri~cipal subordinate in the Navy Ministry and 
instructed that all necessary measures be taken 
to secure obedience. Orders were also issued 
to all major naval commands within Japan , 
directing them to dispatch their chiefs of staff 
to Tokyo immediately in order to receive 
instructions. II 
8 (I) Field Marshal Hata was in Tokyo as the Emperor had summoned a meeting of all the Field Marshals 
and Fleet Admirals at 1000, 14 August. (2) The joint resolution was originally suggested to them by Lt. Gen. Torashiro 
Kawabe, Deputy-Chief of Army General Stalf, the main purpose of which was to reaffirm me unwavering loyalty 
to the Imperial will under these extraordinary circumstances. (Statement by Lt. Gen. Torashiro Kawabe, Depu~y. 
Chief, Army General Staff.) 
9 General Anami declared in his address that the entire Army must act in complete accord with the Imperial 
decision . II Even if it means sleeping on grass and eating stones," he added, II I ask you all to do your utmost to 
assure the preservation of the national polity." (Statemenrs by Lt. Gen. Masao Yoshizumi, Chief, Military Affairs 
Bureau, War Mini stry; Lt. Col. Shiro Hara, Stalf Officer (Operations), Imperial General Headquarters, Army Section; 
and Lt. Col. Takeshita, previously cited). 
10 Army Top Secret Radio No. 68, '4 Aug 45, Sortn Sanun ni lomonau Tsuzuri !nlii;~1C fl! .... ~ (File on 
Soviet Entry into War) compiled by Maj. Hideo Egawa of Military Affairs Bureau, War Ministry, Part I, Doc. No. 12 
II Daily Record of Navy Minister's Secretariat. 
733

[736면]
The prompt action taken by the Army and 
Navy authorities proved, for the most part, 
highly effective. In the Army, where the more 
threatening situation prevailed , the final, unequivocal decision of the top leaders to abide by 
the will of the Emperor dealt a crippling blow 
to the smouldering plot of the young officers 
for a coup d'etat to block the surrender. The 
conspirators had predicated their plans upon 
unified action by the Army as a whole. Since 
the decision of the Army leadership clearly 
rendered this impossible, most of the principal 
plotters reluctantly abandoned the coup d'etat 
scheme on the afternoon of 14 August ." 
Not all of the conspirators, however, were 
willing to bow to the leaders' decision . Two 
of the most fanatical-Maj. Kenji Hatanaka 
and Lt. Col. J iro Shiizaki, both of the Military 
Affairs Bureau in the War Ministry - were 
determined to make a last, desperate attempt to 
block the surrender and force a reversal of the 
Imperial decision to terminate the war. They 
talked Lt. Col. Masataka Ida, a colleague in 
the Military Affairs Bureau, into joining them 
and also secured the promised support of two 
staff officers of the 1st Imperial Guards 
Division. I) 
Hatanaka and Shiizaki made it their ultimate objective to prevail upon the Emperor to 
change his mind and forestall his scheduled 
broadcast on the 15th while galvanizing the 
Army into a united opposition to the surrender. 
To accomplish this , they had in mind a military 
government and planned first to deploy troops 
of the Guards Division during the night of 
14-15 August to seize control of the Imperial 
Palace thereby insulating the Emperor. They 
also planned to usurp control of the central 
Tokyo radio station since the broadcast would 
end all possibility of contrary action by the 
Army. In case of failure, they were fully prepared for suicide. 
The conspirators were ready to go into action 
late on the 14th. Between 2300 and midnight, 
Hatanaka , Shiizaki and Ida proceeded to the 
headquarters of the 1st Imperial Guards Division, situated close by the Northwest (IlIui) gate 
of the Palace grounds (Plate No. 169), and met 
the two division staff officers who had been 
won over to the plot. Shiizaki and these two 
officers-Majs . Hidemasa Koga and Sadakichi 
Ishihara-immediately began planning the disposition of division troops. Shortly after 
midnight Shiizaki , Hatanaka and Ida gained 
admittance to the office of the Guards Division 
commander, Lt. Gen. Takeshi Mori, and 
[2 According to Lt. Col. Takeshita, brother-in-law of War Minister Anami and a key member of the original 
coup d'ttat plot, the young officers conside red it essen tial from the 6rst that the coup be assured of unified Army support 
so that it would not become" a mere local auempt " opposed by sections of the Army forces. The approval of the 
War Minister and Chief of Army General Staff was therefore regarded as II an absolute prerequisite JJ for execution of the 
plan. When the Army leaders finally came out for rigid compl iance with the Emperor's decision, most of the original 
plotters decided that no action could be undertaken. (Statement by Lt. Col. Takeshita, previously cited.) 
13 Accoun t of the anempted military uprising led by Maj. Hatanaka and Lt. Col. Shiizaki is based on the 
followin g sources: (I) Chian Gunchitsu Kankei Hatsu Ral Kan Tsu{uri raYi;1lttkfU1~~*fiHJI (File of Incoming and 
OutgOing Communications on Public Peace and Military Discipline) Military Police H eadquarters, Dec 45: a. Report 
Concerning August 15th Incident and Military Police Measures; b. Eastern District Arm y Headquart ers Report; c. 
August '5th Incident . (2) Kido Nikki *!S IHe (Kido Oia,),) Entries for '5 Aug 45· (3) Shu"n Hishi ~ii'J<ft,~ 
(Untold H istory of the Terminat ion of the War) by Hiroshi (Kainan) Shim omura, May 50, pp. 115-181. (4) 
Statement s by Baron Yoshihiro Tokugawa , Chamberlain, Imperial Hou sehold Ministry; Lt. Col. Masao Inaba and 
Lt. Col. Masataka Ida, both of Military Affairs Bureau, War Mir.istry; Col. Hiroshi Fuwa, Staff Officer (Operations) 
and Maj. Kiyoshi Tsukamoto, Adjutant, both of Eastern District Army Command; Col. Haya shi and Lt. Col. Takeshita, 
previously cited. 
734

[737면]
demanded that he order the division to rise 
against the surrender decision. If Mori's troops 
acted, Hatanaka declared, the Army as a whole 
would follow. 
Mori flatly refused. The Emperor's decision 
was already taken, he said , and the Guards 
Division, particularly charged with the mission 
of protecting the sovereign, would under no 
circumstances act contrary to his will. Hatanaka declined to accept this answer as final and 
pressed Mori to change his mind. Ida meanwhile went into the adjoining office of the 
division chief of staff, Col. Kazuo Mizutani, 
and tried to persuade him to support the plot. 
For some time heated discussion continued 
between Hatanaka and Mori . The Guards 
Division commander was still standing firm in 
his refusal to act, when another conspirator, 
Capt. Shigetaro Uehara of the Army Air 
Academy, came in and joined Hatanaka. 
Uehara urged Hatanaka to act speedily lest 
the plot fail. Hatanaka then appealed to Mori 
once more to give his consent , and when Mor. 
refused, Hatanaka drew his pistol and shot the 
Guards commander in cold blood . At the 
same time, Uehara drew his sword and cut 
down Mori's brother-in-law, a staff officer of the 
Second General Army, who had been with 
General Mori when the conspirators appeared 
at the division headquarters and who at this 
moment attempted to intervene. 
The plot now moved into high gear. Shiizaki and the two staff majors of the Guards 
Division had completed planning the disposition of troops, and a fa!'e division order was 
drawn up over Lt. Gen. Mori's official seal to 
put the dispositions into effect. The order 
directed the bulk of the division strength to 
take up positions encircling the Palace grounds, 
while one company of the 1st Guards Infantry 
Regiment was to occupy the Radio Tokyo 
building . All communications between the 
Palace and the outside were to be severed, 
except those leading to division headquarters." 
Hatanaka, Shiizaki and Uehara did not 
wait for the false order to be completed. 
Leaving Koga and Ishihara to handle matters 
at division headquarters, they immediately 
proceeded to the Palace grounds at about 0200 
and were admitted to the command post of the 
Palace guard detachment near the Nijubashi 
entrance. Two battalions of the 2d Guards 
Infantry Regiment under commanq of Col. 
T oyojiro Haga, the regimental commander, 
were currently standing guard duty. Hatanaka 
and Shiizaki, posing as staff officers specially 
assigned to the Guards Division by Imperial 
General Headquarters, told Haga that a division order was being issued to secure the Palace. 
At 0200 the false order written by the 
conspirators was issued at division headquarters. Shortly thereafter an adjutant delivered it to Col. Haga at the Palace guard 
command post. Haga immediately issued 
implementing orders to his troops. All entry 
and egress to and from the Palace grounds 
were stopped at once. 
This action immediately produced an apparent stroke of luck for Hatanaka and his 
fellow conspirators. Two cars attempting to 
leave through the Sakashita gate were stopped 
by sentries and found to be carrying State 
Minister Shimomura and a number of officials 
of the Japan Broadcasting Corporation, who 
had been engaged in recording the Emperor's 
surrender Rescript at the Imperial Household 
Ministry. Shimomura and those accompanying 
him were detained, searched and questioned. 
14 The false order was issued as Kin (Guards Division) Operations Order No. A-,84, 0200 15 Aug 45. 
File of Incoming and Outgoing CommunicatLOns on Public Peace and Military D iscipline, op. cit. Eastern District 
Army Headquarters Report. 
735

[738면]
PLATE NO. 169 
Geography of Imperial Guards Uprising

[739면]
Since they did not have the recording with 
them, Hatanaka and Shiizaki were certain that 
it must still be in the Imperial Household 
Ministry . 
It was now urgent for the conspirators to find 
the Emperor's recordings of the Rescript in 
order to stop the broadcast which was scheduled 
for noon on the 15th. Accompanied by squads 
of Haga's troops, they lost no time in carrying 
out a frenzied search of the Household Ministry building . General Shigeru Hasunuma, 
chief aide-de-camp to the Emperor, and several 
Imperial Household officials were taken into 
custody and grilled, but they steadfastly refused 
to disclose the whereabouts of the recording. 
The Lord Privy Seal , Marquis Kido, and 
Imperial Household Minister Sotaro Ishiwata 
managed to escape discovery by hiding in an 
underground air-raid shelter beneath the 
Ministry. The searchers repeatedly ransacked 
Kido's office but failed to locate the vital 
recording. 
By this time also, the plot was going awry 
in another quarter. Immediately after the 
assassination of his commanding officer, the 
Guards Division chief of stall, Col. Mizutan i, 
and Lt. Col. Ida, who was acting in collusion 
with Hatanaka and Shiizaki, had proceeded to 
the headquarters of General Shizuichi Tanaka , 
Commanding General, Twelfth Area Army and 
Eastern District Army. Mizutani 's object was 
to report the plot so that the Area Army 
might · take appropriate counter-action. Ida, 
however, went with some hope that General 
Tanaka might support the uprising. 
General Tanaka and his staff swiftly decided 
to assume direct command of the 1st Imperial 
Guards Division and stop the revolt. Steps 
were inunediately taken to contact the various 
regiments and instruct them to disregard the 
false division order." Tanaka wished to proceed at once to the division headquarters and 
take command but was dissuaded from doing 
so by his chief of staff, who argued that he 
might be shot down in the darkness . It was 
consequently decided to wait until dawn. 
Lt. Col. Ida , upon discovering that the Area 
Army command was entirely disinclined to 
support the uprising, left General Tanaka's 
headquarters for the Palace grounds. There, 
he briefly met Hatanaka and advised him that 
the situation was hopeless, urging that the plot 
forthwith be abandoned. Hatanaka , however, 
was not yet ready to admit failure. Ida then 
left the Palace grounds and proceeded to the 
official residence of the War Minister, where 
another part of the drama was unfolding. 
About midnight of 14-15 August, Hatanaka 
temporarily suspending negotiation with Lt. 
Gen. Mori, had called on Lt. Col. Masahiko 
Takeshita, one of the leaders of the original 
coup <fetat plot and brother-in-law of War 
Minister Anami. Takeshita, with most of the 
other ring-leaders, had already renounced the 
plot, but Hatanaka now disclosed to him that 
he (Hatanaka) and Shiizaki intended to incite 
action by the Guards Division in a final effort 
to block the surrender. Hatanaka urged 
Takeshita to use his influence for the purpose 
of winning over War Minister Anami. Takeshita finally consented to do so if the Eastern 
District Army Command also supported 
the coup. 
At about 0100, Takeshita went to the War 
Minister's official 
Hatanaka's plan. 
residence in order to report 
However, finding upon his 
1, The Area Army was apprised of the false division order by the commander of the 7th Guards Infantry Regiment, Col. Minami. Because of the dubious nature of the order, Col. Minami personally went to General Tanaka's 
headquarters to report the matter. Thi s report was made shortly after the Area Army learned from Col. Mizutani and 
Lt. Col. Ida of the ,assassination of the Guards Division commander. Ibid. 
737

[740면]
arrival that General Anami was prepanng to 
commit suicide, he remained silent concerning 
the purpose of his visit until about an hour 
later when shots were heard from the direction 
of the Palace. Takeshita then told Anami 
that Hatanaka and Shiizaki were launching an 
armed coup with Guards Division troops in 
order to stop the Emperor's ~urrender broadcast 
and spur the Army to united action. 
General Anami received this news with a 
curious and enigmatic calm. He manifested 
no intention of acting to put an end to the 
uprising or of changing his suicide plan. He 
merely remarked to Takeshita that General 
Tanaka's Twelfth Area Army would probably 
not join in the revolt, and that as long as the 
AreaArmy stayed quiet , the insurrect ion would 
collapse. Even when Takeshita, a short while 
later , relayed to Anami a telephone report that 
the rebels had assassinated the commander of 
the Imperial Guards Division, the War Minister showed no signs of taking positive action. 
His mind appeared absorbed with the thought 
of impending death. 
It was at approximately 0340 that Lt. Col. 
Ida appeared at the War Minister's residence 
after conferring with Hatanaka at the Palace 
grounds . His intention " was to lay bare the 
events which had transpired , but when he 
found General Anami ready for suicide, he too 
remained silent. Ida joined Anami and Takeshita in conversation and after an hour he 
departed . 
At about 0445, Anami made his final preparations for death. Donning a white shirt given 
him by the Emperor, he knelt facing toward 
the Pal,;,ce. A few moments later he plunged 
a dagger into his abdomen , then raised it and 
slashed his own throat . Col. Takeshita, who 
witnessed Anami's death, found two brief 
suicide messages. One was a 3 ,-syllable verse 
expressing gratitude for the favors of the 
Emperor. The other read, "Confident of the 
everlastingness of our divine fatherland, I give 
my life in atonement for great wrongs." ,. 
Meanwhile, as Anami had predicted before 
taking his own life, the Hatanaka-Shiizaki 
coup was rapidly collapsing. General Tanaka's 
headquarters had already succeeded in establishing telephon ic contact with some units of 
the Guards Division , and these units promptly 
stopped compliance with the false division 
order. There was, however, the most important 2d Infantry Regiment commanded by 
Col. Haga still active in and around the Palace 
grounds, and also the ,st Infantry Regiment 
on reserve yet to be brought under control. 
At about 0450, General Tanaka, accompanied by his aide and an officer of his staff, 
drove to the headquarters of the Imp erial 
Guards Division . There , he found the ,st 
Guards Infantry Regiment still preparing to 
move in accordance with the false " division 
order. He immediately ordered the regimental 
commander to dismiss his troops and placed 
under arrest Maj. Ishihara , one of the two 
division staff officers who had acted in collusion 
with the plotters. 
General Tanaka was now ready to tackle the 
confused situation prevailing in the Palace 
grounds. At about 0600 he proceeded to the 
Northw est (Inui) gate, where Col. Haga , in 
response to telephone instructions , met him 
and reported all developments in detail. After 
cautiously admonishing Haga , Tanaka ordered 
him to return his troops immediately to their 
normal duties. Also at this time Lt. Col. Ida , 
accompanied by his superior at the War Ministry, drove to the Northwest gate but Gen. 
Tanaka stopped them from entering the Palace 
16 "Great wrongs" in one of the suicide messages of War Minister Anami is interpreted as the repeated crimes 
committed by the Army particularly since the Manchurian incident of 1931. (Statement by Col. Hayashi, previous!y cited.) 
738

[741면]
grounds. Then , with one of Haga's battalion 
commanders as an escort, he personally proceeded to the Obunko (Emperor's private library 
and temporary residence) to ensure the safety 
of the Imperial family. The Eastern District 
Army commander then hurried to the Imperial 
Household Ministry to set at liberty Gen. 
Hasunuma and other Court officials whom the 
rebels had confined. Gen. Tanaka accompanied by Gen. Hasunuma reported to the 
Throne at 0735 what had taken place in the 
Palace grounds. He then carefully inspected 
the Imp erial Household Ministry buildings 
and other key installations to assure that 
his orders were carried out. He left the 
Sakashita gate about 0830 and returned to his 
headquarters. 
The ill-advised plot had collapsed completely. Hatanaka, Shiizaki, Koga and Uehara 
signified their intention of committing suicide 
and were therefore allowed by Haga to remain 
at liberty. Koga killed himself at the Imperial 
Guards Division headquarters at '300 on the 
'5th, Hatanaka and Shiizaki in the Imperial 
Palace plaza at '400 the same day, and Uehara 
at the Air Academy on the night of '7-,8 
August ." 
By 0800 on '5 August, complete order had 
been restored in the capital. A small force 
of insurgent-led troops, which had occupied the 
Radio Tokyo building before dawn, had already 
withdrawn after failing in an attempt to put a 
false broadcast on the air. The reckless plan 
of Hatanaka and Shiizaki to touch off a 
general Army uprising against the surrender 
had ended in total failure. , 8 
The Government rigidly banned from publication all news of the uprising attempt. A 
War Ministry communique issued on the, 5th 
and published the next day briefly announced 
the suicide of General Anami but remained 
silent on the circumstances surrounding it. 
Vice Adm. Takijiro Onishi, Vice-Chief of 
the Navy General Staff and organizer of the 
first Kamikaze corps in the Philippines, followed Anami's example on the morning of ,6 
August. Suicides by other high-ranking military officials continued in late August and 
September. '. 
With the collapse of the Hatanaka-Shiizaki 
17 Lt. Col. Ida, in view of the fact that he did not parcicipate in the insurrection after the initial stage and tried 
to persuade Hatanaka, Shiizaki and the others to abandon the attempt, was let off by a military court with light punishment. Maj. Ishihara, Guards Division st~ff officer, also was exonerated in view of his change of heart. On 19 August, 
however, he was shot and killed in Uena Park, Tokyo , while assisting in efforts to pacify a band of recalcitrant antisurrender troops from the Army Air Signal Training Division at Mico. These troops, carrying arms and led by several 
officers, travelled to Tokyo by train on 17 August and encamped in the Ueno Art Museum. Prompt security measures 
by Twelfth Area Army headquarters and the Imperial Guards DLvision prevented any serious outbreak of disorder and 
the troops returned to Mito on 20 August. The officers involved committed suicide . File of Incoming and Outgoing 
Communications on Public Peace and Military Discipl ine, op. cit. August 15th Incident ; and Activities in Tokyo of 
Officers and Troops of the Mito Army Air Signal D ivision. 
18 Other acts of violence, entirely unrelated to the Hatanaka-Shiizaki plot but motivated by anti·surrender sentiment, were committed during the night of 14-15 August by a small group of soldiers and civilians from the Yokohama 
area, led by Capt. Takeo Sasaki . Driv ing to Tokyo in motor trucks in the early hours of the morning , this band fired 
machine -guns into and then set fire to, both the official and private residences of Premier Sw::uki and the private residence of the President of the Privy Council, Baron H iranuma. Capt . Sasaki and his followers were rounded up by 
military police and returned to their unics for disciplina ry measures on 16 August. File of Incoming and Outgoing 
Communications on Public Peace and MititaryDisc ipline, op. cit. August 15th Incident. 
19 General Shizuichi Tanaka , Commanding Gene ral, Eastern District Army and Twelfth Area Army , committed 
suicide on 24 August . On I I Septemb er, ex-Premier General Hideki Tojo unsuccessfu lly attempted to kill himself when 
Ameri can Military Police went to his hom e to place him under arrest. Field Marshal Sugiyama, First General Army 
739

[742면]
plot and the safe execution of the Emperor's 
surrender broadcast, the most critical moment 
had passed. There were still to be scattered 
instances in both the Army and Navy of action 
in defiance of the surrender edict, some of a 
fairly serious and potentially dangerous nature. 
However, the firm resolve of the top military 
leaders and the discipline of the armed forces 
had already proved equal to their gravest test 
on the fateful night of 14-15 August . 
Formation of New Cabinet 
Japan now faced the many complex and 
difficult problems involved in the practical 
effectuation of the surrender. But before these 
could be tackled, it was first necessary to install 
a new government in place of the weary, 
struggle-worn Suzuki Cabinet. 
Immediately after Suzuki's resignation on 
the afternoon of 15 August, the Emp eror 
commanded Marquis Kido to recommend a 
new Premier. Speed was essential since 
General MacArthur's headquarters in the 
Philippines was already dispatching orders to 
the Japanese Government with regard to surrender arrangements. Marquis Kido therefore 
decided to dispense with a full advisory conference of the jushin and summoned only Baron 
Hiranuma , President of the Privy Council, for 
consultation. 
Kido and Hiranuma swiftly agreed in view 
of the troubled domestic situation that a 
member of the Imperial family should be called 
upon to head the Cabinet . Since it was particularly vital that the nominee had the confidence of the armed orces, the choice fell upon 
General Prince Naruhiko Higashikuni, unclein-law of the Emperor, member of the Supreme 
War Direction Council, and former commander 
of the General Defense Army. The Emperor approved Kido's recommendation on 
the evening of the 15th, and at 1000 on the 
16th Prince Higashikuni formally received the 
Imperial command to .orm a new government.'" 
This marked the first time that an Imperial 
Prince had been appointed Premier since the 
promulgation of the Meiji Constitution. 
Marquis Kido strongly emphasized to the 
premier-designate the urgency of forming a 
cabinet which would be capable of effecting 
the difficult transition to peace swiftly and 
without incident. He pointed in particular 
to the nervousness of the people in the face 
of impending enemy occupation and the everpresent 'threat of rebellious action on the part 
of Army and Navy elements opposed to 
surrender. General MacArthur , he informed 
the Prince, was already demanding the prompt 
dispatch of a surrender mission to Manila!' 
Messages had begun arriving from MacArthur's headquarters during the night of the 
15th. The Japanese Government and Imperial 
General Headquarters, however, took no action 
in compliance until formal notification was 
received from the Allies at 1030 on 16 August 
that the final Japanese surrender offer had been 
accepted. The Allied note , signed by the 
United States Secretary of State , James F. 
Byrnes, directed the Japanese authorities to 
Commander, killed himself the following day. Other general and Bag officers who committed suicide later included 
General Shigeru Honjo, General Teiichi Yoshimoto, Lt. Gen. Kumaichi Teramoto, Lt. Gen. Yoshio Shinozuka, and 
Vice Adm. Matsuo Morizumi. In addition to the suicides of military officers, there were a few instances of mass 
suicides by members of nationalistic and patriotic societ ies in the later part of August . (I) Untold History of the 
Termination of the War, op. cit., pp. 180, 224, and 248. (2) Foreign Office Memorandum No. 1734 (LCR), 24 
Aug 50, and No. '7" (LCR), 21 Aug 50. 
20 Kido Diary, op. cit. (Entries for 15-,6 Aug 45.) IMTFE Record, pp. 3', '98- 202. 
21 Prince Naruhiko Higashikuni, Walak",hi no Kiroku :f1.(I)iIilJi/< (My Record) Toho Shobo, Mar 46, pp, 1 '9-22. 
740

[743면]
order the prompt cessation of hostilities and 
stated that General MacArthur had been 
named Supreme Commander for the Allied 
Powers to effect the surrender. u The note read: 
You are to proceed as fol/ows: 
I. Direct prompt ces",tion of hostilities bY}dpdnue forces, mformmg the Supreme Comrna,uler for 
the Allied Powers of the efJeclrYe ddte d,Id hour of 
ruch uISatHm. 
2. Stud emjJItujes at once to the Supreme Com· 
mdnd" for tht Allied POWtTI with informdtion of tht 
disposition of tht }dpd1lese forces d,Id commd,rders, d,rd 
fully empowered to mdke d1ly drrdngemellts directed 
by the Supremt Commd,lder for the Allied PoweTI to 
tndble him d,rd his dccompdnying forc" to drr;"e dt 
the pldCt dtsiFted by him to rteei .. the formdl 
surrender. 
3. For tht purpose of rtcti>ing such sUTTerlder 
ttnd carrying it into effect, Geuf!ral of the Army 
Douglas MdcArthur has be", desiFted dS the 
Supreme Commdnder for the Allied Powers, dnd he 
will notify the }dpdnese Go>ernment of the time, pldce 
arrd other detdils of the formdl sUTTerrd". 
The earlier radios direct from General MacArthur had specified that representat ives, accompanied by competent advisors representing 
the Army, Navy and Air forces, should be sent 
to Manila to receive instructions regarding 
effectuation..of the surrender. The delegation 
was directed to travel aboard an aircraft of 
specified type and markings and to proceed 
via a designated route, leaving Sata-Misaki, 
on Kyushu, between 0900 and 1100 on '7 
August." This allowed barely 24 hours in 
which to make preparations for the mission. 
Execution of the Allied instructions was 
hampered almost immediately by disagreement 
111 Imperial General Headquarters and the 
Foreign Office as to the exact nature of the 
miSSIOn. Some officials interpreted the mstructions to mean that the delegates must be 
armed with full powers to receive and agree 
to the actual terms of surrender and consequently must be top representatives of the 
Government and High Command . Others 
understood them to mean that the mission 
would be purely preparatory for the purpose 
of working out technical surrender arrangements and procedures." 
Late in the afternoon of 16 August, a 
message was dispatched to General MacArthur's headquarters asking for a clarification 
of this matter and requesting more time in 
which to organize and prepare the mission . 
At the same time the Supreme Commander 
was notified that the Emperor, at 1600 on 16 
August, had issued a "cease hostilities" order 
to all Japan ese armed forces and was prepared 
to dispatch members of the Imperial family to 
the various combat areas to assure obedience 
by the field commanders. The message pointed out, however, that it might take some time 
for knowledge of the order to reach the frontline troops before resulting in full cessation of 
hostilities. >, 
A reply clarifying the purpose of the mission 
to Manila was received from the Allied 
Supreme Commander on the morning of 17 
August. ·The Government and Imperial 
General Headquarters prompt! y acted to hasten 
the necessary preparations, but appointment of 
the head of the mission was further held up 
pending the installation of Higashikuni 
Cabinet. 
The premier-designate had pushed the 
22 Foreign Office Memorandum No. 23 (MAl, 10 lan 50. 
23 Radio No. 2501, SCAP to Japanese Government, 15 Aug.45 . Contained in File on Soviet Entry into War, 
0P' cit. Part I, Doc. No. 37. 
24 Statement by Mr. Shunichi Matsumoto, Vice·Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
25 Radio No. I, Japanese Government to SCAP, 16 Aug 45. Contained in Flie on Soviet Entry into War, 0p. 
cit. Pact I, Doc. No. 38. 
741

[744면]
formation of the new government at top speed, 
and on the aftemoon of the '7th the official 
ceremony of installation took place in the Emperor's presence_ Until General Shimomura 
could be summoned to Tokyo from his North 
China Area Army command, Prince Higashikuni himself assumed the portfolio of War 
Minister concurrently with the premiership 
Admiral Mitsumasa Y onai remained in the 
critical post of Navy Minister_ Prince Ayamaro 
Konoye, in accordance with a special recommendation by Marquis Kido, entered the Cabinet as Minister without Portfolio to act as 
Prince Higashikuni's closest advisor. The post 
of Foreign Minister was given to Mr. Mamoru 
Shigemitsu, who had previously served in the 
Koiso Cabinet_'· 
With the new govemment duly installed in 
office, Prince Higashikuni broadcast to the 
nation on the evening of '7 August. He 
declared that his policies as Premier would 
conform to the desires 01 the Emperor as 
expressed in the Imperial mandate to form 
a Cabinet. These policies, he said, were to 
control the armed forces, maintain public order 
and surmount the national crisis, with scrupulous respect for the Constitution and the 
Imperial Rescript terminating the war." 
Cessation of Hostilities 
The first steps toward actual cessation of 
hostilities had already been taken by Imperial 
General Headquarters in advance of the formal 
order received from the Allied Powers on ,6 
August. On the '4th , the Navy Section of 
Imperial General Headquarters had ordered 
immediate suspension of all attack operations 
against the United States , Britain, China and 
the Soviet Union." The Army Section 
followed suit on the '5th with an order which 
stated :'. 
1 . It is the intmtion of Imperial General HeadquarteTS to comply with the pro,isiollS oj the Imperial 
Rescnpt oj 14 August [945. 
2. Until further orders are reailled, all Armies 
will continue perjormance of present duties, but all 
acti>e attack operation! will be susp<llded. Steps will 
be taken to maintain military discipline and solidarity 
of action. In the homeland, Korea, Sakhalin and 
Formosa, precautions will be taken against possible 
disturbances of the public peace_ 
Following receipt of the Allied order on ,6 
August, immediate steps were taken to extend the suspension of attack operations to all 
hostile activities. Orders sent out the same 
day by the Army and Navy Sections of Imperial General Headquarters directed all Army 
and Fleet commands to order the forces under 
their control to "cease hostilities forthwith." 
Army and Fleet commanders were ordered to 
report back to Imperial General Headquarters 
the effective dates and hours set by them for 
the cessation of hostilities in their respective 
operational areas_ J' 
26 The full Cabinet list was as follows: Premier and War Minister, Prince Naruhiko Higa shikuni ; 
Navy, Admiral Micsumasa Yonai ; Foreign Affairs, Mamoru Shigemitsu; Home Affairs, Iwao Yamazaki; Finance, 
Juichi Tsushima ; Justice, Chuso Iwata ; Welfare, concurrently Education, Kenzo Matsumura ; Agriculture and Com· 
meree, Kotaro Sengoku ; War Provisions, Chikuhei Nakajima; Transportation, Naoto Kohiyama; Ministers without 
Portfolio, Prince Ayamaro Konoye and Take tora Ogata. A few changes were made in the original Cabinet prior to the 
formal signing of the surrender on 2 September , General Sadamu Shimomura becoming War Minister, Tamon Maeda 
Education Minister, and Binshiro Obata Minister without Portfolio. 
27 (,) Yomiu,i-Hochi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. ci,., ,8 Aug 45. (2) My Record, op. ci,., pp. '38 - 4(. 
28 Daikairei Dai Shijushichi-go *1Ii-il-ml!!l+-t:StJi (Imperial General Headquart ers Navy Order No. 47) '4 Aug 45. 
29 Dairikumti Dai Sen,amblakuhachijuichi-go *~j()t,-::::W i\ +-iIX (Imperial General H eadquarters Army Order 
No. 1381) 15 Aug 45. 
30 (I) Daikairei Dai Shijuhachi-go *1Ii-il-tj',I!!I+ i\~ (Imperial General Headq uarters Navy Order No. 48) 16 
Aug 45. (2) Dairikumti Dai Stn.amblakuhachijuni-go *!I1!1'lt~~T::::Wi\+=iIX (Imperial General H eadquarters Army 
Order No. 1382) 16 Aug 45. 
742

[745면]
On 17 August, the Emperor personally 
backed up these orders with a special Rescnpt 
to the armed services. His Majesty's message, 
carefully worded to assuage military aversion 
to surrender, paid tribute to the gallantry , 
sacrifice and undiminished fighting spirit of the 
armed forces, but exhorted them to comply 
with the Imperial decision to conclude peace 
since this was necessary to assure the preservation of the national polity. The Rescript 
read: .' 
More than three yea" and eight monthr haY< elapred 
ri'lCe We declared war agalfl$t the Uruted Sldter and 
Great Brildin. We are deeply grateful to Our be/o>ed 
roldierr and railo" for fighting gallantly in pertileutial 
wastelauds dud oyer rag;"8 tropicaL seas, undeterred by 
",ery hardrhip. 
Recently, the SO'lliet Unio1l entered the war agaiml 
Us, and "ariau! other factors, domestic d'ul mteT· 
rldtio,utl, hd>e led Ur to co,ocIude that any further 
coUb7luaho1l of hostilities would 01lly result ;u increased 
diklrter and ultimately bring dertruction of the .. ry 
btUir oj the Empire'r exirteuc<. Therefore, although 
the fighting rpirit of the Army and Nayy ir in no way 
dimiJlished, it is OUT iUlent to cOllClude peace with the 
Utlited States, Britain, the SO}liet Union dud the 
Chu"gking GOJlemmeut ;71 order to assure the pTeser~ 
')Iabotl of Our glorious national polity . 
We are ri,lCerely grie>ed at the lorr of many of Our 
loyal and bra .. office" and meu, who haY< jalleu in 
battle or died of illnefl. At the rame time, We 
beli"e that the dirtinguirhed deedr a,ui true loyalty oj 
Our fighting meu will embody the roul of the Jap<1l1efe 
people for all gerJeratio'l$. 
We charge you, the members of the dTmed forces, 
to comply faithfully ",ith Our intentio'l$, to prer<rYe 
rtroug solidanty, to be straIghtforward w your actums, 
to Ol'ercome eyer., hardship, and to bear the u"bearablt 
i1l order to ltl'} the !ouudatlOTls for the etlduriug lift 
of Our nahOll. 
On the same day that the Rescript to the 
armed forces was issued, three Imperial Princes 
left Tokyo by air as personal representatives of 
the Emperor to urge compliance with the 
surrender decision upon the major overseas 
commands. The envoys chosen all held military rank as officers of the Army, and they 
had been guaranteed safety of movement by 
General MacArthur's headquarters. General 
Prince Yasuhiko Asaka was dispatched as 
envoy to the headquarters of the expeditionary 
forces in China, Maj. Gen. Prince Haruhiko 
Kanin to the Southern Army, and Lt. Col. 
Prince Tsuneyoshi Takeda to the Kwantung 
Army in Manchuria. By 20 August, they 
had completed their missions." 
Meanwhile, on 19 August, Imperial General 
Headquarters had issued orders fixing 22 
August as the final deadline for the cessation 
of all acts of hostility by Army and Navy 
forces in the homeland area." A Navy 
Section order issued 22 August directed the 
Southeast, Southwest and China Area Fleets 
to cease hostile acts with the least possible 
delay after 22 August. The same day, an 
Army Section order set 25 August as the final 
date for cessation of hostilities by all overseas 
Army forces." 
The Army High Command had been par31 Arahi Shimbun WHlj}f11fl (Asahi Newspaper) , Tokyo, .8 Aug 45. 
32 Imperial General Headquarters Communique, 22 and 23 Aug 45. Yomiuri-Hochi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. 
cit., 23 and 24 Aug 45. (2) Radios exchanged between SCAP and Imperial General Headquarters. File on Soviet 
Entry into War, op. cit. Part I, Docs. No. 38, 39 and 62; Part II, Doc. No. 26. 
33 (.) Dai'ai"i Dai Goju·go *lfif1t liDLi-l/t (Imperial General Headquarters Navy Order No. 50) 19 Aug 45. 
(2) Dairikumt; Da; Stnsambyakuhachijuroku-go *'.ilfirm-r=a j\ +~~ (Imperial General Headquarters Army Order 
No. 1386) 19 Aug 45· 
34 (1) Dai'ai"i Dai Gojurhi-go *lfif1tm-Ei-IZYl/t (Imperial General Headquacters Navy Order No. 54) 22 Aug 
45. (2) Dairi'umel Dai Sensambla'uhach~uhachl-go *!iI1!ijtf.l,T=E i\ i-i\;)J/ (Imperial Gene.al Headquarters Army 
Order No. 1388) 22 Aug 45. 
743

[746면]
Original Painting by j. Mulcal 
PLATE NO. '70 
Burning Regimental Flag

[747면]
tieularly apprehensive with regard to the reaction of the forces in China ro the surrender. 
The China Expeditionary Army, with a 
strength of about one million men, had never 
suffered a decisive military defeat in eight years 
of fighting. On about 11 August, after learning that Japan was suing for peace, General 
Yasutsugu Okamura, China theater commander, had addressed a strong protest against 
acceptance of unconditional surrender to both 
War Minister Anami and the Chief of the 
Army General Staff." 
The concern felt by the Army authorities, 
however, proved needless. Following the 
promulgation of the Imperial Rescript terminating the war, General Okamura promptly 
ordered the forces under his command to 
comply with the surrender decision. With the 
exception of minor elements which were under 
attack by Chinese Communist troops, all components of the China Expeditionary Army had 
ceased hostilities by 21 August. 
Although delays had been anticipated, the 
cessation of hostilities was actually accomplished in most areas with remarkable speed. 
By midnight on 17 August, all Army and 
Navy forces in Japan and Southern Korea and 
all Navy forces in China and the Rabaul area 
had reported the end of hostile action. By 
19 August, similar reports had been received 
from Northern Korea, the Kuriles, most sections of Manchuria, the Central Pacific islands 
and New Guinea. Army forces in the Rabaul 
35 Statement by Lt. Gen. Kawabe, previously cited. 
area and, with some exceptions, the forces in 
Southeast Asia had reported by 22 August. 
No report, however, was received from General 
Yamashita's beleaguered headquarters in the 
mountains of northern Luzon.'· 
Mission to Manila 
Parallel with the steps to bring about cessation of hostilities, preparations were hastily 
completed for the dispatch of the surrender 
mission to Manila. The installation of the 
Higashikuni Cabinet on 17 August removed 
one cause of delay, and in the afternoon of the 
same day a message from General MacArthur's 
headquarters clarified the nature and purpose 
of the mission. On the basis of this clarification, it was promptly decided that Lt. Gen. 
Torashiro Kawabe, Deputy-Chief of the Army 
General Staff, should head a delegation of 
sixteen members mainly representing the Army 
and Navy General StallS." 
Lt. Gen. Kawabe was fonnally appointed by 
the Emperor on 18 August. By late afternoon 
of the same day, assembly of the data required 
by the Allied Supreme Commander was largely 
completed, and a message was dispatched to 
Manila informing General MacArthur's headquarters that the mission was prepared to leave 
the following morning." The itinerary received prompt approval from the Supreme Commander. 
At 0611 on 19 August, the surrender mis36 Imperial General Headquarters received no reports confirming the cessation of hostilities by units in the 
Philippines until early in October. Dates given for the other areas are based on special reports prepared by the First 
Demobilization Bureau, 1 Dec 47 and Second Demobilization Bureau, 24 Nov 47. 
37 (I) File on Soviet Entry into War, op. cit. Part I, Docs. No. 42, 52 and 53. (2) Full composition of the 
delegation was as follows: Chief delegate, Lt. Gen. Tor3shiro Kawabe; Army representatives, Maj. Gen. Masakazu 
Amano, Col. Arata Yamamoto, Lt. Col. Masao Matsuda, Lt. CoL Kiyoshi Minami, Lt. Col. Mamoru Takakura, Lts. 
Sadao Orake and Harumi Takeuchi; Navy representatives, Rear Adm . Ichiro Yokoyama, Capt. Toshikazu Ohmae, 
Capt. Hidemi Yoshida , Comdr. Yoshimori Terai, Mr. Shuichi Mizota and Mr. Kazuma Sugita i Foreign Office, Mr. 
Katsuo Okazaki and Mr. 1\.1orio Yukawa. 
38 Radio NO. 9, Imperial General Headquarters to SCAP, [8 Aug 45. File on Soviet Entry into War, op, 
cit. Part I, Doc. No. 63. 
745

[748면]
sion took off from Haneda Airport , outside 
Tokyo, and first proceeded to the naval air base 
at Kisarazu on Boso Peninsula in Chiba Prefecture_ There, they boardec{ two disarmed 
Navy medium bombers displaying the distinctive m'lrkings specified by General MacArthur's headquarters. The planes took off 
at 0707 for Ie-Shima in the Ryukyus , where 
the delegates were to transfer to an American 
aircraft for the rest of the journey to Manila . 
Special precautions were taken during the 
initial part of the flight owing to rumors that 
anti-surrender elements in the Air forces might 
attempt to intercept and shoot the planes 
carrying the mission. The two aircraft took a 
circuitous route and flew with radios silenced.l9 
No mishap occurred, and they put down safely 
at Ie-Shima at 1240. The mission then boarded an American Army transport which reached 
Nichols Field near Manila at 1800 the same 
day. 
At the airport the delegation was officially 
met by Maj. Gen. Charles A. Willoughby, 
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2. Jeering , hostile 
crowds of Filipinos lined the streets to watch as 
a procession of military cars drove the members 
of the mission to their hotel. At 2100 the first 
conference began at the Supreme Commander's 
headquarters in the Manila City Hall, with 
Lt. Gen. Richard K. Sutherland, General 
MacArthur's Chief or Staff, presiding.'" 
The initial discussions continued for four 
hours, during which speedy progresss was 
made toward the settlement of major problems. 
Data required by Allied headquarters with 
regard to the strength and disposition of Japanese Air forces, locations and condition of 
remaining naval vessels, condition of airfields, 
and other matters were submitted. Lt. Gen. 
Kawabe affirmed the Japane se intention to 
carry out faithfully all requirements fixed by 
the Allied Supreme Commander and expressed hope that the entry of the occupation 
forces into Japan could be effected smoothly 
and without incident." 
The conference now tackled the vital 
problem of the occupation time schedule. 
From a document handed to them at the 
start of the discussions, the Japanese delegates 
learned that General MacArthur 's headquarters had already drawn up a tentative schedule 
which left an unexpectedly short time before 
the entry of the first occupation forces into 
Japan. This schedule called for the landing 
of an advance party at Atsugi Airfield on 23 
August, the entry of naval forces into Tokyo 
Bay on the 24th, the arrival of General MacArthur at Atsugi on the 25th together with 
the start of the main landings of airborne 
troops and naval and marine forces, signature 
of the formal surrender instrument aboard an 
American battleship in Tokyo Bay on the 
28th, and initial troop landings in southem 
Kyushu on 29-30 August.'> 
39 Joint statement regarding the surrender mission to Manila by Rear Adm . Iehiro Yoko yama, Capt. Toshikazu 
Ohmae , Capt. Hidemi Yoshida. and Comdr. Yoshimori T erai. 
40 Those participating in the first conference were: For the All ied Supreme Commander, Lt. Gen. Richard K. 
Sutherland, Maj. Gen. Charles A. Willoughb y, Maj. Gen, A.]. Chamberlin, Maj. Gen L . G. Whitl ock, Brig. Gen. 
D . R. Hutch inson. and Rear Adm. Forrest P. Sherman. For the Japanese, Lt. Gen. Torashiro Kawabe, Maj. Gen. 
Masakazu Amano, Col. Arata Yamamoto, Lt. Cols. Matsuda, Minami, and Takakura, Rear Adm. rchiro Yokoyama , 
Capts. (Navy) Ohmae and Yoshida, and Comdr. Terai. Manira Haken Teik oku Daihyo no Kai gungawa Shuseki Zuiin 
Nimmu Hokok"sho '" =- :7 ~iH. *liIIft *0) Iffil[1II1 1tJ ~:!lIlEHE'l9jifli. jlri!f (Duty Report of the Senior Naval Member, 
Manila Delegation) Aug 4S. 
746 
41 (I) Statement by Lt. Gen. Kawabe, previously cited. (2) Duty Report of Senior Naval Member, op. cit. 
42 Duty Report of Senior Naval Member, op. cit. Appendix A.

[749면]
The Japanese delegates felt that this 
stringent schedule left f<rr too little time for 
effecting the evacuarion and disarmament of 
Army and Navy forces in the areas of initial 
occupation and for taking other precautionary 
measures against the occurrence of untoward 
incidents. Lt. Gen. Kawabe and the senior 
Japanese naval delegate, Rear Adm . Yoko· 
yama, frankly stated this view to the American 
representatives and requested that a period of 
at least ten days be allowed for prepar ations 
before the entry of Allied troops. Lt. Gen. 
Sutherland replied that such an extended delay 
could not be granted, but in order to ease the 
difficulties on the Japanese side, he consented 
on behalf of the Supreme Command er to 
defer the arrival of the advance party at Atsugi 
for three days until 26 August , with the first 
major troop landings to be similarly held up 
until the 28th ... 
At the second and concluding conference, 
which began at 1030 the following day , the 
Japanese delegat ion was handed several documents relating to the occupation and surrender 
procedures. The first of these was a statement 
of requirements covering the surrender of Japanese military forces, the entry of occupation 
units into the Tokyo and Kanoya areas, and 
logistic matters . The others were the texts of 
the formal surrender instrument to be signed 
in Tokyo Bay, of an Imperial Rescript to be 
issued following the surrender ceremony , and of 
a general order to be issued by Imp erial 
General Headquarters simultaneously with the 
Rescript, commanding Japanese forces in the 
43 Ibid. 
field to surrender to designated Allied commanders." 
T~. e surrender parleys ended at 1215 on the 
20th . Shortly thereafter, the Japanese delegation was escorted to N ichols Field for the 
return flight to Ie-Shima. Just be~ore departure, 
however, Rear Adm. Yokoyama handed Maj. 
Gen. Willoughby of the American staff, a 
solicitation appealing to the Supreme Commander for special consideration in the enforcement of the occupation, to the traditional 
veneration of the Japanese for their shrines 
and ancestral tombs and the privacy of their 
homes." This appeal was received in the 
same spirit of fairness which had marked the 
American attitude throughout the parleys." 
In contrast to their uneventful journey to 
Manila, the Japanese delegates ran into bad 
luck on the way back to Tokyo. At Ie-Shima, 
where they were to transfer back to their own 
planes , last-minute mechanical trouble with its 
brakes prevented one of the two aircraft from 
taking off. Since, however , it was extremely 
vital to carry the conference data back to 
Tokyo without a moment 's delay , Lt. Gen. 
Kawabe and the other principal members of 
the delegation decided to take off immediately 
aboard the remaining aircraft. The plane left 
Ie-Shima at 1840 on the 20th. 
Through an error made in refueling at 
Ie·Shima , the plane suddenly ran short of 
gasoline as it neared its home base at Kisarazu 
just before midnight. The pilot quickly decided upon a forced ianding in shallow water just 
offshore near Hamamatsu and succeeded in 
44 File on Soviet Entry into War, op. cit. Part II, Docs. NO.4. 5 and 13; Part III, Docs. No ~, 90 and 91. 
45 Duty Report of Senior Naval Member, op. cit., Appendix E. 
46 The Japanese delegation was unanimously impressed by the firm but fair attitude of the American staff officers 
with whom they deale. Lt. Gen. Kawabe later stated that" the Americans listened carefully to what we had to say, 
expressed sympathy, and scudied our suggestions with a cooperative attitude," Mr. Katsuo Okazaki, Foreign Office 
member of the delegation, similarly remarked that the American accimde "was stern, but they were not arroganc nor 
did they mock the vanquished." (Statem ents by Mr. Katsuo Okazaki, Vice ·Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Lt. Gen. 
Kawabe, previously cited.) 
747

[750면]
bringing the plane down without ser'O'ls 'nhry 
to anyone aboard and without loss of the vital 
documents carried by the delegation. Early 
on the morning of 21 August, a special Army 
plane picked up the delegates at Hamamatsu 
airfield and flew them the short remaining 
distance to T okyoY 
Immediately after reaching the capital, Lt. 
Gen. Kawabe made a full report on the results 
of the surrender mission to the Emperor, the 
Premier, and Imperial General Headquarters. 
With the scheduled arrival of the advance 
party of the Allied occupation forces only 
five days away, it was clear that only by 
superhuman effort could the necessary preparations and precautions be carried out in 
time to comply with the requirements fixed by 
General MacArthur's headquarters. 
Preparations for Allied Occupation 
The most pressing task facing the] apanese 
military authorities under the Allied directives 
received at Manila was the disarmament of 
combat units stationed in the areas of initial 
occupation and their evacuation outsides these 
areas. Only a few hours after Lt. Gen. Kawabe 
reported the outcome of his mission, the Army 
and Navy Sections of Imperial General Headquarters , on the afternoon of 21 August, issued 
basic orders for the execution of this requirement. Detailed implementing directives were 
issued the same day and on the 22nd. 
The basic orders stated that Allied forces 
would begin occupying the homeland on 26 
August and reaffirmed the intention ofImperial 
General Headquarters "to insure absolute 
obedience to the Imperial Rescript of 14 August, 
to prevent the occurrence of trouble with the 
occupying forces, and thus to demonstrate 
Japan's sincerity to the world." With respect 
to the disarmament and evacuation of Japanese 
forces in the initial occupation areas, the orders 
established the following deadlines: 
Army Force .... 
I. All forcer except units 5pecially authorized will 
be .. acuated, leaving behind their equipment, from the 
u area of initial evacuatiotl" along both sides of Tokyo 
and Sagami BaY5 (Plate No. 171) by 1200 on 25 
Augu5l ... 
2. All forces except unit5 5pecially authorized will 
be .. acuated, lea.ing behind their equipment, from the 
Kanoya area in 50uthern Kywhu, by 1200 on 30 
Augu5t.'" 
NtJ~y Force." 
I. All combat force5 except the minimum required 
to maintain order and guard weapot15 dump5, 5upplies 
and military i,l5tallatiotl5, will be .. acuated from the 
At5ugi area by 1800 on 24 Augmt, and fro.7I all other 
parts of the Cf area of i"itiat e"acuation " by 1800 011 
27Augu5t. 
2. All combat forces except those required for 
maintenance of order and guard duty will, after 
disarming, be e"acuated from the Kalloya area, In 
southern Kyu5hu, by 1800 on 30 Augu5t. 
The implementing directives subsequently issued by Imperial General Headquarters Speci47 The second plane, carrying the remaining members of the surrender mission, left Ie·Shima at 0830 on :11 
August after undergoing repairs. It arrived safety at Kisarazu in the afternoon of the same day. 
48 Dairikum<i Dai S<nsambyakuhachijushichi-go *Milllt~-+=:a A -t--t:lI!! (Imperial General Headquarcers Army 
Order No. 1387) 2I Aug 4~. 
49 The" area of initial evacuation" had been specifically defined by General MacArthur's headquarters in the 
documents handed to the Japanese surrender mission at Manila. These documents also defined a larger II Tokyo Bay 
area" inclusive of the U area of initial evacuation." (Plate No. 171) Certain requirements, such as the disarming of all 
coastal batteries, anti·aircraft guns and artillery, applied to the whole U Tokyo Bay area." 
50 For the purpose of the evacuation of armed forces the Kanoya area was defined as U the Satsuma and Osumi 
peninsulas south of a line through Kushikino, Ka jiki, Sueyoshi and Aburatsu." 
~I Daikairei Dai Gojuni-go :kl/i1;-1L-t-=llll (Imperial General Headquarters Nary Order No. ~2) 21 Aug 45. 
748

[751면]
til K ,to! 
SAGANI BAY 
(\ • ,It ~ 
t:lj' HtOZU-SHIf,\A 
A 
PAC I 
PLATE NO. 171 
'Ii 
Fie 
• ,"ADA 
S~AJ 
il' 
o C E A N 
Ii 
LEGEND 
••••• Tokyo boy oreo 
.-;1:1111 •• 
Area of initio l evocuation 
Et,yoUon in fli t 
'\,b~l==·'l.._:"=='1":"..:i? :ius 
Areas Designated in Surrender Instructions

[752면]
fied that Army forces in the areas to be 
evacuated should prepare to begin movement 
out of these areas at 1200 on 23 August, and 
that all personnel left behind should be disarmed and placed under reliable commanders. 
The evacuated troops were to be assembled as 
far as possible at points convenient for subsequent demobilization. Procedures were also 
laid down for the disarmament of troops and 
the disposition of weapons and explosives. All 
flights by military aircraft were prohibited after 
1800 on 24 August . Movements of submarines 
and naval craft were similarly restricted. Steps 
to prepare the Atsugi and Kanoya airfields, as 
well as waterways and anchorages, for the arIlval 
of the occupation forces were directed." 
The Government meanwhile acted to transform the wartime organizational structure into 
one for handling the transition to peace. On 
22 August, the Supreme War Direction 
CoucH was abolished, and a War Termination Arrangements Council (Shusen Shori 
K"igi) established in its place. The new council 
was a joint organ of the Government and 
Imperial General Headquarters, invested 'With 
top-level authority in matters connected with 
the termination of the war. On it sat the 
Premier, the Foreign, War and Navy Ministers, a Minister without Portfolio, and the 
Chiefs of the Army and Navy General Staffs. 
A subordinate organ called the War Termination Liaison Committee (Shusen Jimu Ren,,,ku link"i) was also set up, with the primary 
functions of assuring the prompt and exact 
execution of Allied directives. The committee 
was composed of officials of various ministries 
under the challmanship of the Foreign 
Minister.') 
Later, on 26 August, another organ was 
established in accordance with Allied directives. 
This was designated the Central Liaison Office, 
attached to the Foreign Ministry , and was 
charged with liaison between the Japanese 
Government and the Allied forces of occupation. Mr. Katsuo Okazaki, who had represented 
the Foreign Office on the surrender mission to 
Manila, received appointment as Chief of the 
Central Liaison Office. The main office of the 
agency -was established in Tokyo , and this 
organization gradually supplanted the original 
War Termination · Liaison Committee. The 
local liaison offices were later set up at such 
places as Atsugi, Tachikawa, Yokohama, Kyoto 
and other places as the occasion demanded ." 
In addition to these agencies, the Government and Imperial General Headquarters established joint reception committee at the points 
of arrival of the occupation forces in order to 
expedite local preparations and cooperate with 
the command staff of these forces upon arrival. 
Such committees were stationed at Atsugi, 
Yokohama and Tateyama on the main island 
of Honshu, and at Kanoya in southern 
Kyushu." 
A joint announcement by the Government 
and Imperial General Headquarters, published 
on 22 August, notified the nation at large that 
Allied occupation troops would begin arriving 
in the Tokyo Bay area on 26 August." At 
the same time, both the central and local au52 (1) Dairikushi Dai Niungohyakushijuku-go naishi Dai Nisengohyakugojuirhi-go *!;jlmm=f-l£13Illl+1t.I)Jt~£ 
m=f-l£13l£ i--t!l (Imperial General Headquamrs Army Directives Nos . 2549- 2551) 21-22 Aug 45. (2) Daikaishi I 
Dai Gohyakusanjusan-go naishi Dai Gohyakusanjuharhi·go :kIfimml£13.=.+ .=. t.t~£ml£13.=.+ i\~ (Imper ial General 
Headquarters Navy Dinctives Nps . 533-538) 22- 24 Aug 45. 
53 (1) Asahi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. cir., 24 Aug 45. (2) Central Liaison Ollice Report No. 9887 (GG), 
29 Dec 47. 
750 
54 Central Liaison Office Report, op. cit. 
55 Ibid. 
56 Asahi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. cit., 22 Aug 45.

[753면]
thorities took steps to calm public disquiet and 
apprehension caused by wild rumors that the 
occupying forces would commit acts of violence 
and brutality against the civilian population. 
A hasty evacuation of the coastal areas was already beginning as a result of these exaggerated 
fears. 
To ease the public nervousness and combat 
rumors , the press and radio were fully employed. 
On 22 August, the Home Ministry announced 
that "all phases of me occupation by Allied 
troops will be peaceable " and urged the public 
not to " become needlessl y panic-stricken" and, 
under no circumstances , to resort to physical 
force against the occupying troops. " Governor 
Hirose of Tokyo Metropolis similarly urged the 
people to shun irresponsible rumors and maintain a discipline worthy of the nation ." Residents of the Y okosuka area were assured that 
the evacuation of women and children due to 
fears concerning the conduct of occupation 
troops was totally unnecessary and that " no 
unpleasant incidents are expected to occur."" 
While the authorities thus strove to instill 
confidence in the public with regard to the 
conduct of Allied troops, they themselves continued to be apprehensive lest hostile action by 
die-hard anti ·surrender elements in the Japanese 
armed forces wreck the peaceful effectuation 
of the occupation. There had been ominous 
indications of trouble both from Kyushu, where 
the bulk of sea and air special-attack units 
were poised to meet an enemy invasion , and 
from Atsugi itself, which was to be the main 
point of entry for Allied airborne troops into 
the Tokyo Bay area. 
The threat in these instances came from the 
Navy Air forces. Although the Navy Section 
of Imperial General Headquarters, as early as 
'4 August, h'ad ordered the suspension of attack 
operations, Vice Adm. Matome Ugaki, Commander of the Fifth Air Fleet based on Kyushu, 
decided to defY the Imperial surrender decision 
in a final suicide attack on the enemy. Leading 
a formation of eleven tokko planes , he took off 
from Oita airfield on the afternoon of '5 
August, within a few hours after the Emperor's 
surrender broadcast , and headed for Okinawa 
to attack enemy shipping. None of the aircraft 
returned. Ugaki, who had sent hundreds of 
his Kamikaze pilots into battle now realized that 
me only way left for him was to follow in the 
footsteps of his gallant airmen. 60 
Vice Adm. Ryuno suke Kusaka, appointed to 
succeed Ugaki, acted speedily to prevent further 
trouble by hastening the separation of units 
from their weapons. This device obviated a 
repetition of acts as serious as Ugaki's , but 
there was a temporary breakdown of discipline 
and control which hampered the orderly disarmament and evacuation of units from the 
Kanoya area in preparation for me arrival of 
occupation forces. 
At Atsugi, an even more threatening situation developed in the Navy's 302d Air Group. 
Immediately after the announcement of the 
surrender , extremist elements in the Group led 
by Capt. Yasuna Kozono, flew over Atsug i and 
me surrounding area in their aircratt and 
scattered leaflets urging continuation of the war 
on the ground that the surrender edict was not 
the true will of the Emperor but the machination of "traitors around the Throne". The 
extremists, numbering 83 junior officers and 
noncommissioned officers, did not resort to 
hostile acts but refused to obey orders from 
their superior commanders. 
On '9 August Prince Takamatsu, brother 
57 Yomiuri·Hochi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. cit., 23 Aug 45. 
58 Asahi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. ci\., 26 Aug 45. 
59 Ibid., 27 Aug 45· 
60 ShuItnttn no Sa/cu!tn Gdikyo ntZrdbini T tisen ft~OfJ(J)f1=Iit.m.1f!.fC1*~ (Outilne of Operations Prior to Termi. 
nation of the War and AccivitiesConnected with the Cessation of Hostilities) 2d Demobilization Bureau, Feb 49, p. 16. 
751

[754면]
of the Emperor and a captain in the Navy, 
telephoned to Atsugi and personally appealed 
to Capt. Kozono and his followers to obey the 
Imperial decision. This intervention did not 
end the incident, however, for on 21 August the 
extremists seized a number of aircraft and flew 
them to Army airfields in Saitama Prefecture 
where they hoped to gain support from Army 
air units. They failed in this attempt , but it 
was not until 25 August that all members of 
the group had surrendered. ·' 
As a result of the Atsugi incident, the Emperor decided on 22 August to dispatch Capt. 
Prince Takamatsu and Vice Adm. Prince Kuni 
to various naval commands on Honshu and 
Kyushu to reiterate the necessity of strict 
obedience to the surrender decision. Both 
princes immdiately left Tokyo to carry out this 
mission, but the situation so improved during 
the next two days that they were recalled before 
their scheduled tours had been completed.·' 
The Emperor's action was nevertheless effective 
in helping to restore full order and discipline 
in the naval forces. 
Meanwhile , physical preparations for the 
entry of the Allied occupation forces were being 
rushed ahead in the face of serious difficulties. 
On the night of 22-23 August, a typhoon 
struck the Kanto area, inflicting heavy damage 
and interrupting communications and transport 
vitally needed for the evacuation of troops from 
the occupation zone. It now appeared highly 
unlikely that the preparations to receive the 
Allied advance party could be completed by 26 
August, the scheduled date of arrival. On 
the 24th, therefore, a message to this effect 
was dispatched to General MacArthur's 
headquarters.·' 
In response to the Japanese message, the 
Supreme Commander notified the Government 
and Imperial General Headquarters on 25 
August that the occupation schedule would be 
set back an additional two days." This 48hour postponement was rendered even more 
necessary by a second typhoon which struck 
western Honshu during the 25th. The delay, 
however, proved sufficient to enable most of the 
disorganization and confusion to be overcome 
before ' the entry of the occupation troops. 
Preparation of troop billets, requisitioning of 
motor vehicles, and other required steps were 
carried out despite a serious lack of materials 
and facilities. 
Disarmament and Demobilization 
From the moment that Japan's surrender 
had become final, the military authorities had 
recognized that the key to assuring a smooth 
transition from war to peace lay in the speediest 
possible disarmament and demobilization of the 
armed forces. Imperial General Headquarters 
had therefore begun laying the groundwork 
for these vital processes even before the departure of the Japanese surrender mission to 
Manila. 
The disarmament and demobilization of 
such large forces, scattered over a wide area of 
the Pacific and the Asiatic mainland, was 
obviously a formidable task. In the homeland 
alone, there were approximately 3,655,000 men 
under arms, both Army and Navy." The 
61 Record of Court Martial of Capt. Yasuna Kozono , Imperial Japanese Navy, 16 Oct 45. 
62 Foreign Office Memorandum No. 1017 (LCR), 4 Oct 49. 
63 Radio No. 31, Japanese Government to SCAP, 24 Aug 45. File on Soviet Entry into War , op. cit., Part 
II, Doc. No. 50. 
64 Radio No. 2559, SCAP to Japanese Government and Imperial General Headquarters, 25 Aug 45. Ibid . 
Part II, Doc. No. 60. 
65 Special Report, Military Intelligence Section, GHQ SCAP , Final Progrtss of Demobili~arion of JapantIe Armed 
Forces, 31 Dec 46. pp. 12 and 79. (Report based principally on figures provided by the 1st and 2d Demobilization Bureaus). 
752

[755면]
strength of Army and Navy forces overseas, 
including the scattered remnants left behind 
and isolated in such places as New Guinea, the 
Bismarcks and the Solomons and in the 
mountains of the Philippines, could only be 
very roughly estimated owing to the lack of 
up-to-date information for many areas. Actually, later investigations indicated an approximate total of 3,575>323 , with the largest 
concentrations in China and Manchuria." 
For the homeland area, disarmament procedures could be fairly well standardized and 
controlled. For the overseas theaters, however, 
they had to be left flexible to meet varying 
conditions, and local commanders were allowed 
a wide measure of discretion." As far as 
possible, Imperial General Headquarters sought 
to apply the principle of self-disarmament by 
Japanese troops by order of their own commanders, so that the stigma of surrender would 
be less keenly felt by the individual soldier. 
This concern was manifested in similar Army 
and Navy Section orders issued respectively on 
18 and 19 August, which stated in part: 68 
Military personnel and ci.ilianr attached to the 
armed forces, who come under the control of enemy 
troops following the promulgation of the Imperial 
Rescript, will not be regarded as prisoners of war. 
NOT will the surrender of weapons or a"y other act 
performed in accordance with enemy directi.es handed 
down by Japanese superiors be considered surrender. 
In the homeland, fUll resort was made to 
the inactivation or transfer of military units 
from one place to another as a means of 
speedily separating personnel from their 
weapons. While generally effective, overhasty measures of this nature led to some 
confusion in local areas, and on 19 August 
the Navy Section of Imperial General 
Headquarters issued the following directive 
calculated to assure orderly disarmament 
procedures: .. 
In order to eliminate all possible sources of trouble 
between Japauese and American forces when the enemy 
occupation begifl.S, to maintain effecti"e coutrol O)ieT 
personnel, dnd to facilitate furtber arrangeme,UJ of 
.arious kinds, the Commander·in·Chief, General Na.y 
Command, will make preparations in general conformity with the following outline: 
I. Permission is granted to transfer and station 
forces as required, without regard to Julies and stations 
assigned by existing orders. 
2 . Separation of forces into small units will be 
a.oided, and so far as posnble all units will be 
arrembled promptly in suitable locations to facilitate 
direction and control. 
3. Weapons and munih'onr which cannot be 
mo>ed "'ith units "'ill not be de>troyed, Kattered or 
lost, but ",ill be placed under the custody of necessary 
guards to be left behind. 
4. Vesrelr "'ill be anchored at their aHigned 
mO()7ing places ; surface aud undersea special-attack 
craft will be kept at their regular bases or clo;;e to them; 
and aircraft in general "'ill be stored at their present 
locationr. Necerrary guards will be arrigned. 
By 26 August, two days before the scheduled arrival ' of the Allied advance occupation 
66 Foreign Office Memorandum No. I281 (GR), 26 Jun 50. 
67 As an example of the latitude given to local commanders, an Imperial General Headquarters, Navy Section 
directive issued 19 August stated that" when necessary to facilitate smooth procedure, agreements may be entered into 
with the senior local commander of the Allied forces. H It further gave permission " to take expedient measures in 
accordance with the actual situation." Daikaishi Ddi GOhYdkuJdnjuichi-go *ifjj::mM1ia=+-~ (Imperial General Headquarters Navy Directive No. 531) 19 Aug 45. 
68 ([) Dairikumei Dai Sen,ambyakuhachijugo.go *M1!lltM'f' =j~f il. -t-lLll.\! (Imperial General Headquarters Army 
Order No. (385) [8 Aug 45. (2) Daikair,i Dai Goju.go *1li'll'M'lL-t-ldt (Imperial General Headquarters Navy Order 
No. 50) [9 Aug 45. 
69 ([) Daikai,hi Dai Gohyaku,anju.go *llifiiM'lLa=:-t-ldt (hnperial General Headquarters Navy Direcrive No. 
530) [9 Aug 45· (2) Similar directive was issued by rhe Army Section. Dairiku,hi Dai Nisengohyaku,hijuku-go *M1fii 
M'='flLaJlll-t-Aldt (Imperial General Headquarters Army Directive No . 2549) 2[ Aug 45. 
753

[756면]
party at Atsugi, the disarmament of Army 
and Navy forces in the homeland and in some 
overseas areas was well under way. On that 
date , Imperial General Headquarters , in 
accordance with directives from Genera l MacArthur's headquarters , notified Army and 
Navy commands of procedures to be followed 
in negotiating the cessation of hostilit ies and 
in effecting the final transfer of weapons and 
equipment to Allied control.'" 
Parallel with the disarmament of the fighting forces, War and Navy Ministries and 
Imperial General Headquarters also tackled 
the broader problem of general demobili zation . 
This was to be carried out in accordance with 
Allied directives, but even before such directives were issued, the Army and Navy authorities proceeded to draw up and disseminate 
basic demobilization plans so that no time 
would be lost. On 18 August the War 
Ministry issued both a general demobilization 
outline, approved by the Emperor , and an 
implementing order containing detailed basic 
regulation ." Three days later, on 21 August, 
the Navy Ministry radioed to subordinate 
commands a general plan for the demobilization of naval personnel ." 
Actual execution of the plans began shortly 
thereafter. As the program got under way, 
the Emperor on 25 August issued a special 
message to all Army and Navy personnel 
expressing the Imperial desi e to see the 
demobilization carried out swiftly and in 
orderly fashion. The message read:" 
To Our trusted soldiers dna sailors 011 the occasion 
of the demobilizatioll of the Imperial Army and Na.y: 
Upon due c01lsideration of the situatioa, We ha'Vt 
decided to lay down Our arms and abolish military 
preparah"olls. We are o"ercome with emotion when 
We thillk of the precept of Our Imperial Forefathm 
alld the loyalty so long giyell by Our . aliallt 5e"ieemell. 
Especially, Our grief is unboullded for the mallY who 
haye fallell ill battle or died of sieknm. 
On the occasion 0fdemo!Ji/izahotl, it is Our /a'Vetit 
wish that the program be carried out rapidly alld 
systematically under orderly supervision, so as to gi."e 
a crowlling example of the perfectioll of the Imperial 
Army alld Na.y. 
We charge you members of the dTmed forces, to 
comply with Our wishes. Turn to ci"lli/ia1l occupatjoru 
as good alld loyal mbjeclI, alld by elldurillg hard,hips 
and o')'ercomi1lg difficulties, exert your full energies in 
the lark of postwar recollstrU(holl. 
In the homeland, demobilization progressed 
rapidly, with some 1,500 ,00 0 men being discharged and returned to their homes by the 
end of August." Demobilization of the forces 
overseas, however, could be accomplished only 
little by little as a long and difficult program 
70 (I) Daikaishi Dai Gohyakushiju.go *lfiHl1itini~Ill!-t-~ (Imper ial General Headquarter s Navy Directive No. 
540) 26 Aug 45. (2) Dai,.jku,hi Dai NiI<ngohyakugojuhachi-go *'j! filjg=T .li~.li-t-i\!I!1 (Imperial General H eadquarters Army Directive No. 2558) 27 Aug 45. (3) Dai,.jku,hi Dai NiI<ngohyakugojuku.go *1\IHl1im=T.li~.li-t-A.'J/ 
(Imperial General H eadquarters Army Directive No. 2559) 31 Aug 45. 
71 Meirti TJu{uri 1f.t"'ft-ta: (File of Orders) Military Police Headquarters, Aug 45: Essentials of Imperial Army 
Domobilization; and Detailed Regulations Concerning Essentials of Imperial Army Demobilization 
72 Secretariat Personnel Con6dential Radio No. 210,110, Navy Ministry, 21 Aug 45. File of Incoming and 
Outgoing Communications on Public Peace and Military Discipline, op. cit. Navy Gazette No. 5176, 6 Sep 45. 
73 Meirei Shiji Shorui Tru{uri 1fItfJ-:f1i7i-:.!fIiUft (File of Documents Pertaining to Orders and Directives) Military 
Police Headquarters, Aug 45. 
74 Demobilization of Army and Navy personnel in the homeland was completed by the end of November 1945. 
At this time the War and Navy Ministries were dissolved, being replaced respectively, by the 1st and 2d Demobilization 
Ministries which continued to handle the demobilization of persORnel repatriated from overseas. The ministries later 
became bureaus under the Welfare Ministry. 
754

[757면]
of repatriation was carried out. The program 
got under way soon after the formal signing of 
the surrender when the Navy hospital ship 
Takasago Maru was dispatched to Meleon in 
the Caroline Islands to bring back the Japanese 
personnel on the island." 
Entry of Occupation Forces 
At 1030 on 2 7 August, elements of the 
United States Third Fleet entered Sagami 
Bay in execution of first step of the delayed 
occupation schedule. Preparations for the 
reception of the Allied forces had been completed as far as was humanly possible, and in 
a radio address on the 26th, the newlyappointed War Minister , General Sadamu 
Shimomura," had made a final and urgent 
appeal to the Army to submit to the occu· 
pation quietly and without incident. He 
said :77 
The course we must follow hase/early been indicated 
in the Imperial R"cript. We in the armed " " ices 
ha .. no choice but to obey re>ermtiy the Imperial 
will. . ... Any action against or coutrar] to the 
Imperial decision will not be condoned e>fI' though it 
springs from the pure Bushido spirit. . ... I strictly 
admollish you 1101 to let younel." be agitdted by 
untoward incidents dnd not to assume tJ hostile attitude 
toward the foreigners or indulge in disorderly speech 
or acti.ity. . ... We must beha .. prudentiy, taking 
into considerdtiou the future of the nation. Do not 
become excited and conceal or destroy arms which are 
to be suTT",Jered. This i, our opporiullity to display 
the mag1Uficence of our nation. 
Between 0828 and 1100 on 28 August, the 
advance party of the Allied occupation forces, 
consisting of about 150 men under Col. C.T. 
Tench, arrived at Atsugi airfield. After hearing a report by Lt. Gen . Seizo Arisue, chairman of the official reception committee, the 
advance party completed technical arrangements for the arrival of the main forces and 
issued supplementary instructions to the Japanese authorities. Col. Tench expressed satisfaction with the preliminary preparations which 
had been carried out in comp! iance with the 
directives of the Supreme Commander ." 
On 30 August the main body of the 
airborne occupation forces began streaming 
into Atsugi in a steady procession of transport 
planes, while naval and marine forces simultaneously began landing at Y okosuka on the 
south shore of Tokyo Bay. At 1405 on 30 
August, the Supreme Commander himself 
arrived at Atsugi to set up his headquarters 
on Japanese soil. The Tokyo newspaper 
Yomiuri·Hochi, in a story published the following day, described the scene as follows :'. 
As the four-engined plane landed, the waitillg 
officen, men and newspaper reporters surged forward. 
The door of the plane opened, a,,J the tall, khaki·clad 
figure of General MacArthur appeared. He 1I'ore 
dark greell sun· glasses u,,Jer his large, .isored military 
cap and held a com·cob pipe in his mouth. Calmly, 
he paused with one foot Oil the debarkation ladder to 
75 (I) SCAP Directi ve to Imperial General H eadquarters, I Sep 45. File on Soviet Entry into War, op. cit. 
Part III, Doc No. 79. (2) It was i nitially estimated, in view of the almost complete destruction of Japanese shipping, 
that more than (our years would be required to complete the repatriation program. Progress was more rapid than 
expected, however, due to the loan of over 200 s hips~ lo4 Liberty ships and 104 LST's - by SCAP for repatriation 
purposes between February 1946 and February 1947. 
76 General Shimomura had been relieved on 23 August of command of the North China Area Army in order 
to assume the portfolio of W ar M inister in the H igashikuni Cabinet . Until Shimomura's appointment, Prince Higashi. 
kuni had filled the post of War M inister concurrently with the premiership . 
77 Asahi Newspaper , Tokyo, op. cit., 27 Aug 45. 
78 Statement by Lt. Gen. Seizo Ari sue, Chairman, Atsugi District Reception Committee. 
79 Yomiuri·Hochi Newspaper, Tok yo, op. cit., 31 Aug 45· 
755

[758면]
look around at the welcoming party. 
In his first statement to Allied and Japanese 
reporters, General MacArthur declared: 
From Melbourne to Tokyo is a long road. It has 
been a long and hard road, but this looh like th. 
pay.off The sUTrender plan; are going splendidly 
and completely according to pre"io7ls arrangemeuts. 
In all outlying areas, fighting has practically ceased. 
In this area a week ago, there were 300,000 troops 
which have been disarmed and demobili{ed. The 
Japanese seem to be acting in complete good faith. 
There is .. ery hope of the IUCce;; of the capitulation 
without undue friction and without unnecessar'Y 
blood,hed. 
Every newspaper in Japan printed illustrated 
accounts of the General's arrival at Atsugi. 
The man who for more than three years had 
waged a relentless counteroffensive against the 
Japanese armies in the Southwest Pacific and 
who now was to accept and conclude the surrender, thus made his first appearance before 
the Japanese people. 
Immediately after his arrival, MacArthur 
proceeded to Yokohama, accompanied by Lt. 
Gen. Robert L. Eichelberger, Commander of the 
United States Eighth Army, who had arrived 
earlier in the day. The party drove some 20 
miles eastward through peaceful, farming coun· 
try and silent, war-devastated towns. The 
Supreme Commander set up his headquarters 
provisionally III the Yokohama Customs 
House. The headquarters of the American 
Eighth Army and the Far East Air Force also 
had been established in the same city, and 
representatives of the United States Pacific 
Fleet were attached to Supreme Commander's 
headquarters ." 
In order to facilitate rapid liaison, various 
Japanese agencies were established in the Kanagawa Government Building adjacent to the 
headquarters of the Supreme Commander. 
They included the Yokohama District Reception Committee (later the Yokohama Liaison 
Office), the Imperial General Headquarters 
Liaison Committee and the office of the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture. 
Occupation forces arrived in ever-increasing 
numbers by land, sea and air until important 
cities and major military installations were under Allied control. The occupation of Tokyo 
itself was not carried out until 8 September, 
when some 8,000 troops of the First Cavalry 
Division moved into the capital in orderly fashIOn. Up to this time, traces of uneasiness had 
lingered in the minds of the general populace, 
but the occupation of the capital without incident did much to ease tension. The nation 
as a whole was deeply impressed when it discovered that the occupation troops, from whom 
ill-treatment and excesses had been feared, were 
well·disciplined and under enlightened leadership. In particular, Lt. Gen. Eichelberger's 
order of 9 September p!acing the Imperial Palace, temples, shrines and private dwellings" off 
limits" to occupation forces was gratefully welcomed by the citizens.·' 
Scattered incidents of a minor character were 
reported as contact between the occupation 
forces and the Japanese Government and people 
became more frequent. On the whole, however, the general public was submissive, and its 
trust in the occupation gradually deepened. 
Cooperation in all quarters improved as the 
Japanese came to know American soldiers as 
individuals and recognized the efficiency and 
discipline with which their work was carried 
80 The headquarters of both the United States Eighth Army and the Far Eastern Air Force were set up in the 
New Grand Hotel near the Yokohama Customs Hou se. Rear Adm. } . } . Ballentine acted as the U . S. Fleet liaison 
officer with SCAP. 
81 Yomiuri-Hochi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. cit" 12 Sep 45. Lt. Gen. Eichelberger's order coincided with the 
1/ solicitations" which the}apanese mission (0 Manila left with Maj. Gen. Charles A . WlIIoughby, General MacArthur's 
G·" at the conclusion of the surrender parleys. (Cf. p. 694). 
756

[759면]
out. The words of General MacArthur at 
Atsugl were proving prophetic. 
Signing of the Surrender 
The day set for the formal signature of the 
surrender instrument was a peaceful, cloudy 
Sunday, the second of September . Shortly 
after 0600, Foreign Minister Shigemitsu representing the Emperor and the Japanese Government, General Umezu representing Imperial General Headquarters, and nine accompanying officials of the Foreign Ministry , 
Army and Navy assembled at the Kanagawa 
Government Building in Yokohama . From 
there they drove to the South Pier and 
boarded an American destroyer which took 
them out to the battleship U. S. S. Missouri 
resting at anchor in the middle of Tokyo Bay." 
The Japanese delegation boarded the Missouri at 0855. At 0900 the surrender formalities 
began, with General MacArthur presiding . 
Not a word was spoken or a sign of greeting 
exchanged as the Japanese representatives 
walked to their places. At 0904, Foreign 
Minister Shigemitsu affixed his signature to the 
surrender document . He was followed by 
General Umezu, who signed for both the Army 
and the Navy." Four minutes later, General 
MacArthur affixed his signature of acceptance, 
followed by representatives of the nine Allied 
Powers which had been at war with Japan. 
The ceremony lasted 20 minutes. After 
receiving their copy of the surrender instrument, 
the Japanese delegates returned the way they 
had come, proceeding immediately to Tokyo to 
report to the Emperor. 
The same afternoon, the Government and 
Imperial General Headquarters made public 
the contents of the instrument of surrender. 
The text of the instrument follows :" 
We, acting by command of and in behalf of the 
Emperor of Japan, the Japanese Go>ernment and the 
Japanese Imperial General Headquarters, hereby 
accept the pTOl'isiotls set forth in the declaration issuta~ 
by the heads of the Go>emmenu of the United States, 
China and Great Britain on 26 July 1945, at Potsdam, 
and subsequently adhered to by the Union of So,iet 
Socialist Repub[ics, which four powers are hereafter 
referred to as the Allied Powers. 
We hereby proclaim the u'lCo,u!itional surwu!er to 
the Allied Powers of the Japanese Imperia[ Genera[ 
Headquarters a,u! of all Japanese armed forces and ali 
armed forces utlder Japanese control, lIIherf1ler situated. 
We hereby command all Japanese forces, where>er 
situated, a,u! the Japanese people to cease hostilities 
forthwith, to preser,. a,u! sa>e from damage all ships, 
aircraft, and .mliwry a,u! ci,i[ property and to comply 
with all requiremen!> which may be imposed by the 
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers or by 
agencies of the Japanese GO'YernmeUI of his direction. 
We hereby command the Japanese Imperia[ Genera[ 
Headquarters to issue at o'lCe orders to the Comma,u!ers of all Japanese forces a,u! all forces under 
Japanese control, where'Yer sifutIted, to surrender unco,u!itionally themse[,.s a,u! all forces under their 
control. 
We hereby comma,u! all c;'il, miliwry a,u! na,a[ 
officials to obey a,u! enforce all proclamations, orders 
a,u! directi,,, deemed by the Supreme Comma,u!er for 
the Allied Powers to be proper to effectuate this 
surrender (t1ld issued by him or under his authority, 
and we direct all such officials to remain at their posts 
and to continue to perform their 1Jon-combala,,1 duties 
82 The nine attendants were : Messrs. Katsuo Okazaki, Toshikazu Kase and Saburo Ota, of the Foreign Office; 
Lt. Gen. Shuichi Miyazaki, Maj. Gen. Yatsuji Nagai, and Col. Ichiji Sugita, of the Army j Rear Adms. Sadatoshi 
Tomioka and Ichiro Yokoyama, and Capt. Katsuo Shiba of the Navy. 
83 File on Soviet Entry into War, op. cit. Part III, Doc. No. 90. 
84 The nine powers whose representatives signed the instrument of surrender were the United States, Republic 
of China, United Kingdom, Union of Sovi et Socialist Republic, Commonwealth of Australia, Dominion of Canada, 
Provisional Government of rhe French Republic, Kingdom of Netherlands and the Dominion of New Zealand . Ibid. 
757

[760면]
Unlen specifically relie>ed by him or under his 
authority. 
We hereby u,ulertake for the Emperor, the Japanese 
GO'Yerument and their successors to carry out the pro')I;S;01l1 of the Potsdam Declaratiq1l in good faith, and 
to issue whateller order and take whateyer actiou may 
be required by the Supreme Commander for the Allied 
Powers or by an)' other derig71ated represelltatj'Ye of 
the Allied Powers for the purpose of giving effect to 
that Declaration. 
We hereby command theJapa"ese Imperial Go .. ",ment a"d the Japa .. ese Imperial Geueral Headquarters 
at o .. ce to liberate all Alli ed prisoners of war a"d 
ci"i!iQ" ill/emees 710W under Japanese control dud to 
prol'ide for their protectiou, (tire, maintenance dud 
immediate transportah'01l to places as directed. 
The authority of the Emperor a,uI the Japanese 
Go .. mmeut to rule the sl4te shall be subject to the 
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers who will 
take such steps as he deems proper to effectuate these 
terms of surrender. 
Made public at the same time was the text 
of a new Imperial Rescript announcing the 
formal conclusion of the surrender to the Japanese people. The draft of this rescript had been 
drawn up by General MacArthur's headquarters and had been delivered to the Japanese surrender mission at Manila. It read as follows: 8, 
Accepting the terms set forth in the Dec/aratio .. 
issued by the heads of the Go .. ",me"ts of the 
United States, Great Britai .. and Chi"a on 26 July 
'945 at Potsdam and subsequently adhered to by the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, We ha .. commanded the Japanese Imperial Governme"t a,uI the 
Japatlese Imperial Geueral Headquarters to sign 011 
Our behalf, the instrument of surrender pre>ented by 
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Pow", a,uI 
to III1U general orders 10 the Mditary dnd NalJai 
forces in accordance with the direction of the Supreme 
Comma,uler for the Allied Powers. We command 
all Our people forthwllh to cease hostilities, to lar 
down their arms, and faithfully to carry out all the 
provisious of the instrument of surrender dnd the 
General Orders issued by the Japanese Imperial 
Gove",ment and the Japanese Imperial General 
Headquarters hereunder. 
Also in compliance with Allied directives 
received during the Manila parleys, Imperial 
General Headquarters issued Army-Navy General Order No. 1. This order contained specific 
stipulations for the surrender of local Japanese 
commanders over the entire Pacific war area, 
for the demobilization of the armed forces and 
the general disarmament of Japan, and the furnishing of information required by the occupation authorities. 86 
Simultaneously with and subsequent to the 
surrender aboard the Missouri, Japanese forces 
overseas formally surrendered to designated 
Allied commanders. At T ruk, the surrender 
formalities took place the same day as the signing in Tokyo Bay. At Baguio on Luzon and 
at Chichi-Jima in the Bonin Islands, they were 
carried out the following day; at Batavia, on 5 
September; at Rabaul, on 6 September; at 
Nanking and Seoul on 9 September, and at 
Singapore on 12 September. 8' 
The words with which General MacArthur 
opened the ceremony aboard the Missouri stood 
as solemn testimony to the hopes of the entire 
human race, both victor and vanquished, as 
represented by the men there assembled.88 
But rather it is for us, both "jctors aud "a1l,quished, 
85 A specially prepared copy of this Rescript, signed by the Emperor and countersigned by Premier Prince 
Higa shikuni and all other Cabinet Ministers, was handed to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers by the 
Japanese delegate aboard the Missouri prior to their signi ng of the surrender instrument . Ibid, Doc . No. 91. 
86 Ibid., Doc. No. ~. 
87 (I) Kyu Nihongun Kofuku no Nichiji Basho m a *1Il~'H!:(1) a ~~m (Time and Place of Formal Surrender of 
Japanese Armed Forces) 1St and 2d Demobilization Bureaus, 24 Dec 48. (2) After the surrender of arms in an areas 
had been completed, the Imperial General Headquarters was first abolished on 13 September, and the Army and 
Navy General Staffs were dissolved on 15 October 1945. 
88 Asahi Newspaper, Tokyo, op. cit., 3 Sep 45. 
758

[761면]
Ix> ri" to that high" dignity which alOllt beuefit, the 
sacred purposes we are aboullo SeT1'f. It IJ my earnest 
hope-ltId<ed the hope of all mankind-that from thIS 
solemn oceanon a beller world shall emerge out of the 
blood a,uI ca",age of the past, a world fouuded upon 
faith a,ui understanding, a world dedicated to the 
d'gUlty of rna" and the fulfillment of hIS most cherished 
wlIh for freedom, tol,,<II.ce aud justice. 
759

[762면]
Glossary of Japanese Military Signs, Symbols, and Abbreviations Used in this Volume 
ARMY GROUND FORCES 
Imperial General Headquarters 
Area Army Headquanm 
Anny Headqwnm 
Division H eadqwutm 
Brigade or Infantry Group Headquarters 
Regimental Headquarters 
SA G<n.nI Anny 
HA Am. Anny 
A Anny 
o Division 
MBs l...kp<nd<n. Mitt<! Brig><!< 
B Brigade 
Infantry Regiment 
i 5 Independtm Infantry Regiment 
bs Independent Infantry Battalion 
TKO Armored Division 
TKB Tank Brigack 
TK Tank unit 
Tonk 
Artillery position 
AA Antiaircraft artillery 
NAVY 
p 
GF 
HF 
F 
AF 
S 
Sf 
Sd 
f9 
B9 
Division, Squadron, Aotilla Of 
Base Force Headquarters 
Combined Fleet 
Air Flett 
Battleship or Cruiser Division 
Carrier Division or Air AotiUa 
l::>esU'Oyt:r Squadron 
Air Group 
oBO Special Base Forte 
CV Aircraft camer 
CVL Light au'O'aft carrier 
BB Bottl"!'ip 
CA Heavy cruiser 
CL Light cruiser 
DO o..ao)'" 
AO Tanker 
TI Aircraft carrier 
ARMY AIR FORCES 
Air Division Headquarters 
Air Brigade Headquarters 
FA Air Anny 
PLATE NO. 172 
FD Air Division 
FB 
FR 
- ~ 
- >OOl-
--
Air Brigade 
Air Regiment 
GENERAL 
General Army Of Combined Flut 
operational boundary 
Ana Army or Area Fleet 
operational boundary 
Anny or Fleet operational boundary 
Division operational boundary 
Brigade or Base Foret 
operational boundary 
Regimental or lower unit 
operational boundary 
tt Airfield 
1" Ai=h 
V Airborne landing 
o Assembly area 
~ } DefenSIVe position 
~} Offensive .position 
~ Advance or attack 
....... Troop movement 
--. Withdrawal 
NOTE 
I. Unless otherwise indicated. blue: rqnstnts 
Japanese Forces and red represents Allied Forces 
2. Barta[iom are designated by Roman 
numerals; i. e. 2nd Battalion of 41st Infantry 
Regiment is designated n/41 i. 
3. When the Japanese designation of a 
geographical location differs from that accepted 
by Dq=m'nl of th< Anny '" SWPA, lh< 
j.P'"'" tk.igna.ion ;, follo...d by (}) .nd lh< 
accepted American desigN-tion is given below it 
in parentheses. When no accepted Amencan 
designation can be asCertained, only the. Japanc:se 
designation is gIVen. 
Glossary of Japanese Military Signs, Symbols and Abbreviations