[Washington,] 26 April 1945.

13. Referring to your Number 13, it appears to me, particularly in view of the fact that the Armies now in the Soviet zone are American, that any agreement entered into regarding withdrawal to the designated post hostility zones of occupation in Germany and Austria should be tripartite.

I therefore suggest for your consideration that you address the following message to Marshal Stalin and to me:

“1. The Anglo-American armies will soon make contact in Germany with Soviet forces, and the approaching end of German resistance makes it necessary that the United States, Great Britain, and [245면] the Soviet Union decide upon an orderly procedure for the occupation by their forces of the zones which they will occupy in Germany and in Austria.

2. Our immediate task is the final defeat of the German Army. During this period the boundaries between the forces of the three Allies must be decided by Commanders in the field, and will be governed by operational considerations and requirements. It is inevitable that our armies will in this phase find themselves in occupation of territory outside the boundaries of the ultimate occupational zones.

3. When the fighting is fininshed, the next task is for the Allied Control Commissions to be set up in Berlin and Vienna, and for the forces of the Allies to be redisposed and to take over their respective occupational zones. The demarcation of the zones in Germany has already been decided upon and it is necessary that we shall without delay reach an agreement on the zones to be occupied in Austria at the forthcoming meeting proposed by you in Vienna.

4. It appears now that no signed instrument of surrender will be forthcoming. In this event governments should decide to set up at once the Allied Control Commissions, and to entrust to them the task of making detailed arrangements for the withdrawal of the forces to their agreed occupational zones.

5. In order to meet the requirements of the situation referred to in paragraph 2 above, namely the emergency and temporary arrangements for the tactical zones, instructions have been sent to General Eisenhower. These are as follows:

(a)

To avoid confusion between the two armies and to prevent either of them from expanding into areas already occupied by the other, both sides should halt as and where they meet, subject to such adjustments to the rear or to the flanks as are required, in the opinion of the local commanders on either side, to deal with any remaining opposition.

(b)

As to adjustments of forces after cessation of hostilities in an area, your troops should be disposed in accordance with military requirements regardless of zonal boundaries. You will, in so far as permitted by the urgency of the situation, obtain the approval of the Combined Chiefs of Staff prior to any major adjustment in contrast to local adjustments for operational and administrative reasons.

6. It is requested that you will issue similar instructions to your commanders in the field.”

Upon the receipt of the above message from you, I will at once inform Marshal Stalin that I am in full agreement therewith. [주79]

[246면]

----- 각주 -----
[주79] In his telegram 18, April 27, to President Truman, Prime Minister Churchill stated that he had addressed to Marshal Stalin the message quoted above. Churchill added the following comment: “I think Stalin is pleased at our having informed him in such quick unity of our spontaneous view of the Himmler-Bernadotte contacts. Even if there is a short delay or setback, all our forces will be in a much more favourable position. I thank you so much for promoting the easy way in which we are handling this three-cornered business.” (Department of Defense Files)
