[Extracts]

[Versailles ?, [주87] ] April 30, 1945.

Dear Doc: I enclose a copy of a memorandum prepared on April 29 by G–4 SHAEF [주88] regarding the technical aspects of a French occupational zone on the right bank of the Rhine which would be taken out of the zone heretofore allocated to the United States.

. . . . . . .

I think that the idea of having Jeff Caffery conduct the negotiations with the French is a good one. After he received the telegram yesterday we met with him, including General Meyer representing Mr. Winant and Colonel Whipple representing G–4 SHAEF, to discuss the technical aspects. SHAEF urges that the French be offered only [253면] the two southern provinces of Baden, namely Freiburg and Konstanz. If it seems necessary to give the French additional territory, they could be offered a small bridgehead east of Koblenz which would include the Kreise of Unterwesterwald, Unterlahn, and Sankt Goarshausen. If it is necessary to go further, they could be offered a province in Baden, namely Karlsruhe. However it is really desirable for our occupational forces to have available the port, communications, and transport facilities offered by the Bezirk of Karlsruhe. A study of this matter is enclosed. I think a careful reading of it will prove the desire of our SHAEF authorities to retain the two northern provinces of Baden, namely Karlsruhe and Mannheim, is founded on more than a whim and has back of it very practical considerations. Personally I support the idea fully. I feel that if the French are going to receive part of the Rhineland, the Saar, the Palatinate, and part of Baden they are getting about as much as they can handle and certainly every bit as much as they are entitled to.

Jeff Caffery made the point that we will be dependent on the French for transit facilities for our forces for a good many months to come and that it is necessary to be nice to them. We will be dependent on French facilities and I think we are being nice to them. In fact, we are giving them so much now and so much more than anybody else that I feel the French should be glad to come along with us on the present SHAEF proposal which is eminently fair. The Soviets of course give them nothing. The British have been able to make a nice gesture giving them part of the Rhineland, the Saar, and the Palatinate, which it is now clear the British asked EAC for originally for that very purpose as it is apparent that they never intended to keep it themselves.

All the best to you.

Yours ever,

Bob

[Enclosure]

Memorandum by the Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force (Smith), to Brigadier General Vincent Meyer, Military Adviser to the United States Representative on the European Advisory Commission (Winant)

April 1945.

1.

In accordance with your verbal request, a study has been made of the implications of certain French proposals for a zone of occupation, with particular reference to US military requirements.

2.

It is assumed that the French proposal, so far as the transfer of Hessen Nassau, Ober Hessen and Hessen Darmstadt to France is concerned, will be disapproved, and that these States will remain part of the US Zone of Occupation. There remains then only the [254면] State of Baden and portions thereof to be considered, together with the feasibility of acceding to the French request for a bridgehead east of the Rhine.

3.

Considerations pertaining to the release of each of these three areas are summarized in Annexes A and B attached. [주89]

4.

It is considered desirable that the French be given only the southern part of Baden (Bezirke of Konstanz and Freiburg, see attached map [주90] ). As a final compromise the Bezirke of Karlsruhe might be added; but your view that the retention of Mannheim Bezirke in the US Zone is essential is strongly supported.

5.

If for political reasons, it is necessary to give the French a bridgehead on the east bank of the Rhine, the area comprising the Kreise of Unterwesterwald, Unterlahn and Sankt Goarshausen (see map attached [주90] ) east of Koblenz in the State of Hessen Nassau is considered least objectionable. To accept the JCS recommendation (cable W–72518 [주90] ) that the matter be decided between US and French Commanders is not considered practicable.

6.

In any event, it is essential that a clear agreement be made with the French guaranteeing US right of passage through any part of the French zone lying contiguous to the US Zone. This is vital, not only prior to the transfer of the US line of communication to Bremen, but also thereafter to carry the great load of traffic incident to redeployment to the French ports. We must also retain the exclusive rights to bridges we have constructed over the Rhine and communications we have built in Germany.

W. B. Smith

Lieutenant General, U. S. Army

----- 각주 -----
[주87] During the month of April, the Mission of the United States Political Adviser for Germany was moved from London to SHAEF Main, Versailles.
[주88] Supply Division of SHAEF.
[주89] Neither printed.
[주90] Not found in Department files.
[주90] Not found in Department files.
[주90] Not found in Department files.
