London, May 1, 1945—noon.
[Received May 1—10:25 a.m.]

4390. Cornea 226. In connection with the UK draft Allied declaration regarding the defeat of Germany, transmitted in my despatch No. 22112 of April 2, [주91] Strang has informed Mosely informally of an important addition which he intends to present in the European Advisory Commission. In the fourth paragraph of the preamble the UK Delegation will propose that the words “acting by authority of their respective governments and in the interests of the United Nations” be replaced by the words “acting by authority of their respective [255면] governments and others of the United Nations which have actively participated in the defeat of Germany and in the interests of all the United Nations”.

Strang stated that he is under direct instruction of his Government to urge this addition and that this decision was taken under strong Canadian pressure. The Canadian Government, he said, intends to issue a statement of protest if the instrument or proclamation of surrender is issued in its present language, which it feels, gives inadequate recognition to the contribution made by United Nations other than the four major powers to Germany’s defeat.

When questioned by Mosely, Strang stated that this additional language would require submitting the actual text of the surrender instrument to the Governments of the European United Nations, if [of?] the Dominions and Brazil and receiving from them authorization to sign the instrument on their behalf. He was uncertain whether the Government of India would be similarly consulted. Asked whether this amendment meant that the “additional requirements” foreseen in article 12 (b) of the surrender instrument would have to be similarly approved by all governments authorizing signature of the instrument “on their behalf”, Strang stated that this would presumably be the case.

In view of Department’s 2233, March 23, 11 a.m., reporting the representations made by the Canadian Ambassador to the Department, I shall withhold comment on this proposal when it is presented in the European Advisory Commission. The military developments may not permit consideration of this UK amendment; the latter reopens a question which was argued at great length during the negotiation of the surrender instrument and was definitely decided in favor of the present wording.

Winant

----- 각주 -----
[주91] Despatch 22112 not printed; for text of United Kingdom draft and memorandum of March 30, see p. 208.
