London, May 1, 1945—midnight.
[Received 11:14 p.m.]

4419. Cornea 227. At tonight’s meeting of the European Advisory Commission Strang again made a strong plea for showing the text of the German unconditional surrender instrument to the European Allied Governments and securing their approval of the instrument prior to presenting it to the Germans. Strang feels that the 4 Allies will be in a stronger position if such approval is received. Massigli supported the British proposal. Gousev promised to raise the question again with his Government. In accordance with Department’s 244 January 11, midnight I reserved my position.

Further discussion of the question of consultation followed later when Strang formally introduced his proposed amendment to the fourth paragraph of the United Kingdom draft proclamation on German surrender, transmitted in my 4390, May 1, noon. Asked by Gousev what Allied Governments would be consulted, Strang listed (1) European Allies with whose representatives the EAC Consultation Committee has been meeting, thus avoiding the Poles who were excluded from such consultation at Gousev’s request; (2) British Dominions and India, (3) “maybe” Brazil.

To my question as to whether the “active” Allies would also sign the surrender proclamation, Strang answered in negative. He felt, however, that it would be important for public opinion in such countries as Canada for their Governments to be able to say afterwards that they had been consulted on surrender terms and had approved. To my further question regarding position of the 4 governments if any Allied Government, when consulted, refused to approve the instrument, Strang felt sure that their approval would be forthcoming [257면] since they had already been consulted on basis of a summary of the instrument.

Asked by Gousev whether a similar amendment would be required in the surrender instrument Strang declined to commit himself, but expressed view that instrument would be “greatly improved” by such an addition. It is apparent that the British are very uneasy over the bad effect among the Dominions and the western European Allies of neglecting to secure their approval of the surrender instrument. On the other hand, the broad language of Strang’s amendment to the draft proclamation would open the way for the “active Allies” to demand a direct voice in all future terms and requirements to be imposed on Germany.

Winant