Washington, 4 May 1945.

Dear Mr. Secretary: The Joint Chiefs of Staff concur in the recommendation of General Eisenhower in the attached copy of his cable on the subject of the French zone in Germany and recommend that it be used as a basis for negotiation in the European Advisory Commission. The Joint Chiefs of Staff consider that the bridgehead of the Rhine east of Koblenz in the State of Hessen-Nassau comprising Unterwester Waldkreis, Unterlahn Kreis and Sankt Goarshausen Kreis should be given to the French if they ask for it.

This decision supersedes the remarks in the last two sentences of paragraph 7b (3) and paragraph 8 of the letter dispatched to the Secretary of State by the Secretaries of War and the Navy on 1 May 1945 on this matter. [주3]

Sincerely yours,

H Struve Hensel

[주4] 


Henry L. Stimson

Secretary of War

[Enclosure]

Message to Joint Chiefs of Staff from Eisenhower

Subject is French zone in Germany.

1.

My previous recommendations concerning French zone in Germany were made without detailed study of logistical considerations and natural resources in the area under consideration. These studies have now been made, and I wish to change my recommendation to the following:

2.

It is satisfactory to us to give the French the area in the state of Wurttemberg south of the Autobahn and railway connecting Karlsruhe-Stuttgart [262면] and Ulm as denned by the following Kreis boundaries: Leonberg, Boblingen, Nurtigen, Goppingen, Ulm, and that portion of Munsingen northeast of Autobahn, inclusive to United States. Also the Kreis of Lindau can be conceded to the French as a corridor to the French Austrian zone.

3.

In the state of Baden it is most desirable that we retain the Bezirke of Mannheim and Karlsruhe for control of railways, through road traffic via the Autobahn, oil fields north of city of Karlsruhe, port and signal installations. Only as a last resort should the Bezirk of Karlsruhe be released, and under no circumstances can we relinquish the Bezirk of Mannheim.

4.

If a bridgehead east of the Rhine must be granted I favor the area east of Koblenz in the state of Hessen Nassau, comprising Unterwester Waldkries, Unterlahn Kreis, Sankt Goarshausen Kreis. Can not agree to any bridgehead in the vicinity of Wiesbaden or Mainz.

5.

In order that there be no misunderstanding request that amended view as expressed herein be transmitted as ultimate instructions to Ambassador Caffery through State Department channels.

6.

I have, however, had a personal conversation with Ambassador Caffery, who understands my views and our military requirements, and Murphy will be in constant touch during negotiations.

----- 각주 -----
[주3] Letter of May 1 not printed, but see footnote 86, p. 249.
[주4] Assistant Secretary of the Navy.
