E.A.C.(A.C.C.) 45 12th Meeting

Present:

Mr. G. F. Saksin (in the Chair)

Viscount Hood Count de Leusse

Brigadier F. G French

Brigadier-General V. Meyer

Mr. P. Mosely

Secretariat:

Mr. E. P. Donaldson

Mr. T. A. Marchenko

Mr. E. A. Paton-Smith

Summary of the Agreements on Machinery of Control in Germany and Zones of Occupation

The Committee agreed to accept as a basis for discussion the draft summary of the Agreement on Control Machinery prepared by Lord [263면] Hood on 10th March [P26/33/45] [주5a] and the redraft of the summary of the Protocol on the Occupation of Germany circulated on 17th April [P9/38/45]. [주6]

1. Occupation of Germany

The Committee approved with a number of drafting amendments a “draft summary of the Agreement between the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Provisional Government of the French Republic on the occupation of Germany” and decided to submit it in the form attached [Annex I] to the European Advisory Commission.

2. Control Machinery in Germany

The Committee approved the text of a “draft summary of the Agreement between the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Provisional Government of the French Republic on Control Machinery in Germany” and decided to submit it in the form attached [Annex II] to the European Advisory Commission.

In discussion, the U.S. Delegation proposed as an alternative to new paragraph 4 the following text:—

“The Co-ordinating Committee, acting on behalf of the Control Council and through the Control Staff, will carry out the decisions of the Control Council and exercise day to day supervision and control of the activities of the German central administrative bodies and institutions.

“The Control Staff will exercise control over the corresponding German ministries and German central institutions, and advise the Control Council and the Co-ordinating Committee.”

Brigadier French suggested that if the duties of the Co-ordinating Committee were to be more fully defined, the text of Article 5 of the Agreement of 14th November, 1944, should be incorporated. Mr. Saksin thought that it would be better to omit this paragraph altogether. The Committee agreed to retain the original draft of new paragraph 4 with the substitution of “German central organs” for “the German Central Administration”.

The Chairman pointed out that paragraph 8 of the original draft included matter which did not appear in the Agreement of 14th November, 1944, but was taken from the covering report. He suggested that this should be omitted. Lord Hood said that he would agree to omit this, but would wish to reserve the right to raise orally the question of the issue of a public statement at the time of the signature of the Instrument of Surrender regarding the intention of the [264면] four Governments to consult with the Governments of other United Nations in connection with the exercise of the powers assumed by them in that Instrument.

London , 5 May, 1945.

[Annex 1]

Draft Summary of the Agreement Between the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, and the Provisional Government of the French Republic on the Occupation of Germany [주7]

P9/40/45

1. Germany, within her frontiers as they were on 31st December, 1937, will, for the purposes of occupation, be divided into four zones, one to be allotted to each Power as follows:—

an eastern zone to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics;

a north-western zone to the United Kingdom;

a south-western zone to the United States of America;

a western zone to France.

The occupying forces in each zone will be under a Commander-in-Chief designated by the responsible Power. Each of the four Powers may, at its discretion, include among the forces assigned to occupation duties under the command of its Commander-in-Chief, auxiliary contingents from the forces of any other Allied Power which has actively participated in military operations against Germany.

2. The area of “Greater Berlin” will be occupied by forces of each of the four Powers. An Inter-Allied Governing Authority (in Russian, Komendatura) consisting of four Commandants, appointed by their respective Commanders-in-Chief, will be established to direct jointly its administration.

London , 4 May, 1945.

[Annex 2]

Draft Summary of the Agreement Between the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, and the Provisional Government of the French Republic on Control Machinery in Germany [주7]

P26/39/45

In the period when Germany is carrying out the basic requirements of unconditional surrender, supreme authority in Germany will be exercised, on instructions from their Governments, by the Soviet, British, United States and French Commanders-in-Chief, each in his [265면] own zone of occupation, and also jointly, in matters affecting Germany as a whole. The four Commanders-in-Chief will together constitute the Control Council.

2. The Control Council, whose decisions shall be unanimous, will ensure appropriate uniformity of action by the Commanders-in-Chief in their respective zones of occupation and will reach agreed decisions on the chief questions affecting Germany as a whole.

3. Under the Control Council, there will be a permanent Co-ordinating Committee composed of one representative of each of the four Commanders-in-Chief and a Control Staff organised in the following Divisions (which are subject to adjustment in the light of experience):

Military; Naval; Air; Transport; Political; Economic; Finance; Reparation, Deliveries and Restitution; Internal Affairs and Communications; Legal; Prisoners of War and Displaced Persons; Man-power.

There will be four heads of each Division, one designated by each Power. The staffs of the Divisions may include civilian as well as military personnel, and may also in special cases include nationals of other United Nations appointed in a personal capacity.

4. The functions of the Co-ordinating Committee and of the Control Staff will be to advise the Control Council, to carry out the Council’s decisions and to transmit them to German central organs, and to supervise and control the day-to-day activities of the latter.

5. Liaison with the other United Nations Governments chiefly interested will be established through the appointment by such Governments of military missions (which may include civilian members) to the Control Council. These missions will have access through the appropriate channels to the organs of control.

6. United Nations organisations will, if admitted by the Control Council to operate in Germany, be subordinate to the Allied control machinery and answerable to it.

7. The administration of the “Greater Berlin” area will be directed by an Inter-Allied Governing Authority, which will operate under the general direction of the Control Council, and will consist of four Commandants, each of whom will serve in rotation as Chief Commandant. They will be assisted by a technical staff which will supervise and control the activities of the local German organs.

8. The arrangements outlined above will operate during the period of occupation immediately following German surrender, when Germany is carrying out the basic requirements of unconditional surrender. Arrangements for the subsequent period will be the subject of a separate agreement.

London , 4 May, 1945.

[266면]

----- 각주 -----
[주5] Copy transmitted to the Department by the Ambassador in the United Kingdom in his despatch 22932. May 7; received May 14.
[주5a] Brackets throughout this document appear in the original.
[주6] Neither printed.
[주7] Adopted at a meeting of the Allied Consultation Committee, held on May 4, 1945.
[주7] Adopted at a meeting of the Allied Consultation Committee, held on May 4, 1945.
