No. 22879

London, May 4, 1945.
[Received May 8.]

Sir: I have the honor to enclose two copies of a letter dated May 1, 1945, from the Chairman of the European Advisory Commission to the Chairman of the Allied Consultation Committee of the E.A.C. This letter, which was approved by the Commission at an informal meeting held on May 2, 1945, contains the replies of the Commission to the questions which were raised with the Commission by the E.A.C. Allied Consultation Committee in its report, which was transmitted to the Department with the Embassy’s despatch No. 21791 of March 17, 1945.

The enclosed letter constitutes an instruction issued by the Commission to its Allied Consultation Committee, governing the Committee’s further consultation with representatives of the Allied Governments.

Respectfully yours,

For the Ambassador: 


Philip E. Mosely

Political Adviser, U.S. Delegation European Advisory Commission

[Enclosure]

European Advisory Commission

Copy of a Letter Dated 1st May, 1945, from the Chairman, European Advisory Commission, to the Chairman, Allied Consultation Committee [주19]

Dear Mr. Saksin: As you are aware, the European Advisory Commission has considered, at its informal meetings held on 6th and 25th April, 1945, the report of the Allied Consultation Committee adopted at a meeting held on 14th March, 1945 [P12/60/45] [주19a] , which you submitted with your letter of 16th March,. 1945.

[274면]

The Commission has reached the following conclusions on the recommendations of the Committee in Part II of its report:—

Paragraph 3

The Commission authorizes the Committee to communicate to the representatives of the Governments concerned a Summary of the Agreement on Zones of Occupation in Germany, and will be glad if the Committee will submit for its approval a draft Summary of the Agreement of 12th September, 1944, taking into account the decision of the Crimea Conference that a zone should be allotted to France.

Paragraph 4

The Commission authorizes the Committee to communicate to the representatives of the Governments concerned a Summary of the Agreement on Machinery of Control in Germany, and will be glad if the Committee will submit for its approval a draft Summary of the Agreement of 14th November, 1944, taking into account the decision of the Crimea Conference on the participation of France in the control machinery.

Paragraphs 5 and 6

The Commission approves the recommendations of the Committee.

Paragraph 7

The Commission is informed that the Belgian, Luxembourg and Netherlands Governments have addressed a Memorandum [주20] to the four Governments represented on the Commission through the diplomatic channel, on the question raised in this paragraph. Pending consideration of this Memorandum, the Commission has decided to defer a decision on the reply to be returned to the three Governments.

Paragraph 8

The Commission approves the recommendation of the Committee, and authorizes the Committee to inform the representatives of the Norwegian Government that their proposals should be pursued through appropriate military channels. The Committee is also invited to consider the letter addressed to the Chairman of the Commission by the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs on 14th April, 1945 [P12H/6/45] [주21] and to make recommendations as to the reply to be returned to it.

[275면]

Paragraph 9

The Commission agrees with the Committee that the wishes of the Czechoslovak Government mentioned in this paragraph deserve special attention and will give further consideration to them.

Yours sincerely,

Massigli

London , 2 May, 1945.

----- 각주 -----
[주19] Addressed to Georgi Filipovich Saksin, Counselor of the Soviet Embassy in London and Soviet representative on the Allied Consultation Committee. Chairmanship of the Committee rotated among the four representatives.
[주19a] Brackets appear in the original.
[주20] See despatch 148, April 23, from Luxembourg, p. 237.
[주21] Brackets appear in the original; for a summary of the letter from the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs, see telegram 4078, April 20, from London, p. 234.
