Washington, [May 5, 1945].

The Canadian Government has for some months protested what it considers the lack of recognition to be accorded Canada in the surrender instrument for Germany and the proclamations based thereon. This Government is largely blamed for the opposition to the Canadian representations although our position has been based on the sound practical consideration that the four powers on the European Advisory Commission must be free to carry out decisions without the necessity of consulting Canada and other fighting allies.

Canada has contributed to the military victory with a five division, highly mechanized army, an air force virtually half the EAF [주25] in [277면] aircrew strength and a navy which has handled a large proportion of the Atlantic convoy work.

In view of the sensitiveness of Canada on this subject and the tremendous Canadian pride in the success of Canadian arms, it is felt that the following message would be timely. It is suggested that the draft message quoted below be in your name in view of the close association between the late President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Mackenzie King. May I be informed if you wish us to send the message? [주26]

(To Ambassador Atherton, Ottawa.)

Please request that the following from the President be delivered at once to the Prime Minister:

With the capitulation of the German Armies in the Netherlands, Denmark and Northern Germany, the battles of the Canadian Army in Europe have ended in final victory. Please accept my warmest congratulations on the stirring achievements of Canadian arms and be assured that the American people share with me the desire to pay tribute to the signal contribution which our Canadian comrades have made to the military defeat of Germany.

Joseph C. Grew

----- 각주 -----
[주25] Royal Air Force.
[주26] A note attached to this document initialled by Mr. William Phillips, Special Assistant to the Secretary of State, reads as follows: “May 7th. Mr. Parsons. The President has approved this message to Mackenzie King. Please send immediately.” President Truman’s message of May 7 and Prime Minister Mackenzie King’s response of May 8, 1945, were released to the press on May 10 and are printed in Department of State Bulletin, May 13, 1945, p. 903.
