[Reims ?] 27 April [1945]

Dear Bob: I have got the whole story on the Dutch affair [주44] and it is of a very secret nature.

[771면]

SHAEF has been in touch with Seyss-Inquart [주44a] through Dutch underground channels and proposals have been put forward for a “standstill” in the Netherlands still under German occupation. On our side we would agree not to go beyond the Grebbe Line, to cease bombing and naval action against the Germans in Dutch ports, and to call off action by the Dutch underground. On their side the Germans would order their troops to remain in a “standstill” status, and would refrain from reprisals against the Dutch. It would be understood that the German troops would surrender when resistance ceased throughout Germany. A point not yet decided is the matter of food supplies. Upon the insistence of Prince Bernhard, SHAEF would like to begin dropping supplies by air, announcing in clear on the wireless the fields to which they would be sent. The Germans on the other hand suggest the despatch of the supplies by rail and road transport, under guarantees.

The above is the essence of the matter so far. Seyss-Inquart has sent a message that he would be willing to send representatives tomorrow (Sat) to meet SHAEF representatives at Amersfoort to discuss the “standstill”. It had originally been planned that Gen. Smith [주45] and Gen. Strong would represent SHAEF but I don’t know what is the latest on this.

Apparently no commitments would be made to Seyss-Inquart about his future or that of the Germans in Holland. The Russians have been currently informed through Deane in Moscow. A cable has been drafted setting forth the latest details to the CCS. Our concurrences were not asked for and I think maybe we had better await the sending of the cable to CCS before taking the matter up with the Department. The CCS have been kept currently informed, except for the very latest developments which are still not entirely settled. G–3 [주46] will give me the cable reference number when sent, so that we can relay it to the Department. [주47]

Faithfully,

Jake Beam

[772면]

----- 각주 -----
[주43] Foreign Service Officer on the staff of the U.S. Political Adviser for Germany.
[주44] Reference is to discussions with respect to arrangements for a food relief program for the civilian population of German-occupied western Holland. For documentation on this subject, see vol. v, pp. 1 ff.
[주44a] Arthur Seyss-Inquart, Reich Commissar for Occupied Netherlands.
[주45] Lt. Gen. Walter Bedell Smith, USA, Chief of Staff to SHAEF.
[주46] Operations Division, SHAEF.
[주47] See telegram 2199, April 28. midnight, from Paris, vol. v, p. 23. For results of the conversations between Seyss-Inquart and the Allied officers on May 1, and Seyss-Inquart’s refusal to surrender western Holland to the Allies, see telegram 2279, May 2, 4 p.m., from Paris, ibid., p. 23; also, see account of the conversation in Walter Bedell Smith, Eisenhower’s Six Great Decisions (New York: Longman’s 1956) pp. 197–200.
