Moscow, April 26, 1945—6 p.m. 
 [Received April 26—3:50 p.m.]

1361. Communication has just been received from Yyshinski dated April 24 in which he states that he has been directed by the Soviet Government to communicate the following.

“Upon entry of the Red Army onto territory of Austria the former Chancellor of the Austrian Republic and last President of the Free Austrian Council, Karl Renner, addressed himself to the Soviet Command stating that he was prepared to extend every aid to the Allies in liberating and restoring an independent Austrian state.

“After the entry of Soviet forces into the Austrian capital Vienna Karl Renner informed the Soviet command of his desire to form a provisional Austrian government. In this connection Karl Renner stated that he, as the last President of the Free National Council of Austria which had been dissolved by the Germans, had the legal right to form such a government. He proposes to call together the former Deputies of the Austrian Parliament who have remained in the territory of Austria freed by the Red Army and together with them to decide the question of the composition of a provisional Austrian government into which, in his opinion, representatives of all the political parties of Austria and of non-party elements should enter.

“Karl Renner considers that this means of organizing a government is at the present time the only possible one inasmuch as it is not possible at present to conduct elections to the National Assembly in view of the fact that the greater part of Austrian territory is occupied by the Germans and the entire male population and a considerable part of the female population of the Austrian territory freed by the Red Army has been driven off by the Germans.

“On the assumption that the creation of a provisional Austrian government can be of substantial help to the cause of the Allies in the battle for the complete liberation of Austria from German dependence, the Soviet Government considers it possible not to hinder Karl Renner [95면] and other political figures of Austria in their work of forming a provisional Austrian government. [주78]

“I request you please Mr. Chargé d’Affaires, to bring the above to the knowledge of your government.

“I am sending a letter of similar content to the British Chargé as well.”

Kennan

----- 각주 -----
[주77] The text of this telegram was repeated to Caserta in Department’s telegram 393, April 28, to London as Department’s No. 3324, and to Paris as Department’s No. 1739. The note of the Soviet Government quoted in this telegram was summarized by the Ambassador in the Soviet Union in his telegram 65, April 26, 8 p.m. to the United States Political Adviser on Austrian Affairs in Vienna, not repeated to the Department (Vienna Embassy Files).
[주78] On April 27, 1945, an Austrian Provisional Government headed by Karl Renner as Chancellor was formed and the reestablishment of the Austrian Republic was proclaimed. For the description of the formation and composition of the new government and the text of the proclamation, see Österreichisches Jahrbuch 1945–1946 Nach Amtlichen Quellen (Wien, 1947), pp. 7–12.
