Caserta, April 27, 1945—11 p.m. 
 [Received 11:59 p.m.]

1762. The Department should see a telegram from the Joint Chiefs of Staff to General McNarney, No. W–73445 of April 26 [주83] relative to mission to Vienna. In this connection General McNarney has [99면] given Brigadier General Flory a directive for guidance the main points of which are:

1.

Flory, as McNarney’s representative, will negotiate with French, Soviets and British on Vienna on zoning of Gau Vienna, and allocating facilities in the inner city. Final action will be taken at each level.

2.

As a basis for his negotiations Flory is to be guided by JCS 1169/9 [주84] and JCS message WX72646. [주85]

3.

Flory is to examine proposals presented to him and with Soviet permission look over the Vienna zones. If proposals presented are in full accord with principles laid down in paragraph 2 Flory can agree to them as a basis for McNarney’s recommendations to Joint Chiefs for transmission to the EAC. If proposals are not in line with paragraph 2 Flory is to submit counter proposals in writing, including substance of following four points: (a) equality between four occupying powers will be the basic principle governing the subdivision of Gau Vienna; (b) there will be a satisfactory allocation of the facilities of the inner city; (c) the US zone will be districts of Landstrasse, Wieden, Favoriten, Simmering and Schwechat; and (d) each of the four nations participating in the occupation will be accorded full rights of transit by ground and air over the zones of the other nations throughout Austria.

Any counter proposal made by Flory was also to include a statement to effect that Allied participation in occupation of Vienna and division of Vienna Gau are based on principle of equality.

4.

Flory’s counter proposals will be offered as American proposals for American zones and will not include zones of other countries, except that it can be stipulated that facilities of the United States airfield will be available to other three occupying powers on a larger basis until adequate air facilities may be available elsewhere.

5.

To arrive at agreement Flory could waive claim to Schwechat district lying beyond Schwechat and Zwolfaxing airfields.

6.

Flory is to keep McNarney informed at all times and is to request instructions on matters not covered by this directive.

7.

Flory is to advise McNarney if he thinks the latter should come to Vienna himself or if he believes the conversations should be ended at any stage of the negotiations.

8.

If other representatives bring up matters outside of scope of negotiations Flory is authorized to discuss such matters but to make no commitment.

Winterton, [주86] Flory’s opposite number, has just been made a Major General. Mack will accompany Winterton and I of course shall accompany Flory.

[100면]

The French delegation consisting of seven people and headed by Philippe Baudet is arriving in Caserta Sunday. [주87]

[Erhardt]

----- 각주 -----
[주83] Not found in Department files.
[주84] Not printed. The recommendations contained in this Joint Chiefs of Staff document entitled “Acceptance by the United States of Zone of Occupation in Austria”, dated March 29, 1945, were transmitted in telegram 2658, April 5, 8 p.m. to London, p. 45.
[주85] Not printed; for a summary of this telegram, see the last paragraph of telegram 3400, May 1, 3 p.m., to London, p. 107.
[주86] Maj. Gen. T. J. W. Winterton, Deputy Commissioner (Military) on the British Element, Control Commission for Austria.
[주87] April 29.
