Washington, April 30, 1945—9 p.m.

981. After concerting with your British colleague please inform the Soviet Government as follows with reference your 1361, April 26, 6 p.m. and Dept’s 972, April 28, 7 p.m. [주96]

[105면]

In the spirit of the Yalta declaration on liberated Europe [주97] this Government was preparing with an open mind and in good faith to consult with the Soviet Government about Renner’s proposal, when it was surprised to learn through the press that a provisional Austrian government had already been formed in the Soviet-occupied part of Austria. This development could occur in that area only with the full knowledge and permission of the Soviet authorities. Yet they failed to consult us or inform us beyond the meager information conveyed in your 1361, or to allow time for us to concert with them prior to the establishment of Renner’s provisional regime, the details of which we have learned solely from the press.

We assume that it remains the intention of the Soviet Government that supreme authority in Austria will be exercised by the four powers acting jointly on a basis of equality, through the inter-allied military government envisaged in the proposals for control machinery now before the European Advisory Commission “until the establishment of an Austrian government recognized by the four powers”.

In order that we may collaborate with the Soviet authorities effectively in accordance with the Crimea declaration as far as Austria is concerned it is, in view of this development, all the more necessary that allied representatives proceed at once to Vienna as suggested by Marshal Stalin (Embassy’s 1162, April 13, midnight) and that the protocols on zones of occupation and control machinery be completed in EAC without delay.

Repeated to London as no. 3395 with instructions to inform the Prime Minister; repeated also to Paris as no. 1777, and to Caserta for Erhardt as no. 411.

Grew

----- 각주 -----
[주96] Telegram 972, April 28 to Moscow, not printed, directed the Chargé to inform the Soviet Government that the communication regarding the proposed establishment of an Austrian provisional government was under study by the United States Government; the United States Government assumed that none of the four powers would recognize an Austrian government until all four had agreed on it (740.00119 Control (Austria)/4–2845).
[주97] Declaration on Liberated Europe, included as part V of the Report of the Crimea Conference, released to the press on February 12, 1945; far text, see Conferences at Malta and Yalta, p. 971.
