confidential

[Washington,] July 20, 1948.

The Korean National Assembly which was elected under the aegis of the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea in accordance with procedures laid down in the GA Resolutions of November 14, 1947, has formulated a constitution and elected a president and vice president. [주2] The government will be formed and the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea and the U.S. occupation authorities will probably be informed thereof on or after July 26.

The question of recognition of that government is one which has been under consideration for some time and has been the subject of diplomatic correspondence between this Government and other interested governments. Present planning in this Department calls for the issuance of a statement by this Government shortly after the formation of the new Korean Government to the effect that we regard the latter as the Government of Korea envisaged in the GA Resolutions mentioned above. It is contemplated that it would also be announced at the same time that this Government is sending to Korea a special representative who will be authorized to negotiate with the new Korean Government concerning the transfer of the functions of government presently exercised by U.S. Army forces in Korea and the withdrawal of those forces in accordance with the terms of the cited GA Resolutions. When the General Assembly reconvenes in Paris in September, the Temporary Commission will report to it and the question of the formal recognition of the new Korean Government by the members of the United Nations will come up for discussion and decision.

[1249면]

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Initialed by the Secretary of State who had written Mr. Lovett that “The President asked my opinion as to whether or not we might recognize a Korean Gov. at this time? GCM”.
[주2] Telegram 579, July 20, from Seoul, reported the election that morning of Dr. Syngman Rhee “as President of National Government” and of Lee Sei Yung as Vice President (895.032/7–2048). Telegram 593, July 24, from Seoul, reported their inauguration that morning in the presence of UNTCOK and the political Adviser (501.BB Korea/7–2448).
