confidential

Seoul, November 19, 1948.

219. Cite Zpol 1936. President Rhee today requested following message be transmitted from him to President Truman:

“In the light of the recent development in China, I should like to remind your Excellency, that the Korean people are deeply concerned over the reported withdrawal of the American troops from Korea soon. In view of the fact, that we do not feel our security forces adequate at this time to defend the country against a major onslaught from without and within, I have requested that a military and naval mission of the United States be established in Korea now, to help [1332면] train and equip our defense forces as fast as possible. The Communist successes in China have released large forces of the Communist Army for potential invasion of South Korea. Widely circulated, continued reports that the so-called People’s Republic intends to remove from its ‘temporary capital’ in Pyongyang to Seoul indicate that the Communists are attempting to create alarm and panic among the people in the south. While recent planned uprisings in two southern districts have been crushed the remnants of the disloyal forces continue to disturb the peace by murder and arson, wherever possible. The loyal security forces are able to control these disloyal elements. But the recurrent outbreaks of organized assaults against the people is feared and the public may at any time lose hope and courage beyond the ability of the security forces to deal with.

I believe that the completion of organization of competent national defense forces can be achieved within a short time. Our failure to reach that objective sooner is due to the fact that the transfer of various departments of the government and properties which is still in progress requires time and the new government is only beginning to function. Disloyal elements which succeeded in infiltration into the constabulary in the period of its formation have not yet been entirely eliminated. Therefore, it is imperative that until the complete loyalty of all the defense forces is assured and until the defense forces are capable in dealing with any threat from without or within the country, the United States maintain an occupation force for the time being and establish a military and naval mission as a deterrent to aggression and consequent civil war.” [주1]

My comment on President Rhee’s message follows in separate telegram.

Muccio

----- 각주 -----
[주1] In telegrams 220, November 20, and 227, November 23, from Seoul, Ambassador Muccio reported a resolution adopted by the Korean National Assembly on November 20 by a vote of 88 to 3 “that it is necessary for American troops to remain in South Korea until establishment of defenses of Republic of Korea have been completed.” Some opposition was subsequently expressed toy members who either withdrew or issued statements. (740.00119 Control (Korea)/11–1948, 11–2348) Telegram 232, November 27, from Seoul, reported a message from the Korean Foreign Minister to the Secretary of State, stating that the Government at Seoul on November 22 had voted to request postponement of U.S. military withdrawal until Korea “is ready in military preparation for her own defense.” (740.00119 Control (Korea)/11–2748)
