confidential 
 priority

Seoul, July 11, 1948.

540. Cite Zpol 1049. Radio Pyongyang announced evening July 10 that fifth conference of North Korean People’s Council had that date made five decisions approving the constitution drafted in April and arranging for an election to be held August 25. Substance of these five decisions are:

Decision 1: Constitution of the Democratic Korean People’s Republic shall be enforced in North Korea until it can be enforced in all Korea.

Decision 2: A general election shall be held to choose representatives of the Supreme People’s Council and necessary preparations for such election shall be undertaken by central election committee appointed by standing committee of North Korean People’s Council.

Decision 3: The election shall be held on August 25.

Decision 4: Standing committee approves election regulations.

Decision 5: Standing committee appoints 17 persons as members of central election committee to prepare and supervise election.

Text of election regulations was broadcast as well as very long statement by Kim Il Sung in presenting constitution to People’s Council in which he accuses United States, with help of reactionaries and traitors, of dividing Korea permanently along thirty-eighth parallel, of disrupting economy of South Korea, of creating police state (mentions UP report to that effect), and of brutal disregard of Korean rights as evidenced by recent bombing of Korean fishermen.

Radio report also stated that following foregoing decisions the old flag of Korea (Tai Kook Ki) was lowered and the new national flag of the Democratic Korean People’s Republic was raised.

As indication of rigged character of proceedings, it may be remarked time required to listen to Kim Il Sung’s long speech, as well as others, and to make five decisions mentioned, was two hours and five [1239면] minutes according to time given by radio for opening and closing of council’s session.

It seems therefore that Soviet authorities are regularizing the regime in North Korea by an election preparatory to steps which it will propose at meeting General Assembly. Thought arises that it might be desirable for UNTCOK to attempt to propose to South and North Korean authorities that it be permitted to observe this North Korean election as was done in South Korea. Possibly Australian, Canadian and Indian delegates may suggest such action. However, we are taking no steps to suggest it unless Dept advises that it desires us to do so. If Department thinks favorably of suggestion, it may prefer that USUN make the approach to Secretariat at Lake Success. Danger latent in this suggestion, as we see it, is that if Soviets should accept, this fact might move UNTCOK to request that we postpone any transfer of authority to National Assembly here until General Assembly meets. Such development would upset our present plans and lead to difficulty with Rhee and other South Korean leaders who are in no mood to brook further delays. [주1]

Jacobs

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Marginal notation by the Assistant Chief of the Division of Northeast Asian Affairs (Bond): “Discussed with USUN which feels any such approach would be fruitless. NB”.
