top secret

[Washington,] September 8, 1948.

Subject: Reduction of U.S. Occupation Forces in Korea.

With reference to Mr. Butterworth’s memorandum of August 17 on the subject of the withdrawal of U.S. occupation forces from Korea (Tab A), there are attached hereto for your information (1) a copy of Department of the Army telegram WARX 88336 of August 27 to the Commanding General, U.S. Army Forces in Korea, [주2] authorizing the implementation of plans for the progressive reduction of U.S. military forces in Korea and setting forth the conditions which are to govern such reduction (Tab B), and (2) a copy of a letter of August 28 from the Under Secretary of the Army to the Deputy (Acting) Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas [주3] in which assurance is given that the Department of the Army will notify the Department of State in advance of the time when “in its opinion the reduction of U.S. forces in Korea if continued further would make impossible the successful continuation of the occupation mission” (Tab C).

The attached telegram was drawn up jointly by representatives of the Departments of State and the Army with a view to formulating a position on the subject of the reduction of forces which, while acceptable to the Army, would at the same time be consistent with the principles [1299면] set forth in the memorandum at Tab A and therefore acceptable also to the Department of State. State concurrence in the despatch of WARX 88336 was made contingent upon the receipt of the assurances set forth in the attached letter from Mr. Draper, and the latter communication should therefore be regarded, together with that telegram, as an integral part of our understanding with the Army on this subject.

In pursuance of the understanding represented by paragraph III F of Tab B and the second paragraph of Tab C, it is anticipated that the question of the definitive termination of the U.S. occupation of Korea will come up for review by the Departments of State and the Army about November first since the Army has now indicated (through Colonel Lawson of P & O) that November 15 will be the date beyond which continued withdrawal would make the occupation untenable.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Initialed by the Secretary of State.
[주2] Not printed.
[주3] See footnote 4, p. 1286.
