confidential 
 priority

Paris, November 16, 1948—9 p. m.

Delga 780. Following is text of draft resolution on Korea worked out on tentative basis with Plimsoll of Australian delegation, with Evatt’s approval, as suggested joint US-Australian resolution. Comments will follow in subsequent telegrams.

“The GA

“Having regard to its resolution No. 112 of November 14, 1947, concerning the problem of the independence of Korea;

“Having considered the report of the UN Temporary Commission on Korea (hereinafter referred to as the “Temporary Commission”), and the report of the Interim Committee regarding its consultation with the Temporary Commission;

“Mindful of the fact that due to difficulties referred to in the report of the Temporary Commission, the objectives set forth in the resolution of November 14, 1947 have not been fully accomplished; and in particular that unification in Korea has not yet been achieved;

“(1) Approves the conclusions of the reports of the Temporary Commission;

[1328면]

“(2) Resolves that there has been established a lawful govt (the Govt of the Republic of Korea), having effective control and jurisdiction over the part of Korea where the Temporary Commission was able to observe and consult and in which the great majority of the people of all Korea reside; that this Government is based on elections which were a valid expression of the free will of the electorate of that part of Korea and which were observed by the Temporary Commission, and that this is the only such Government in Korea;

“(3) Recommends that the occupying powers withdraw their armed forces from Korea as early as practicable and, if possible, with[in] 90 days;

“(4) Resolves that, as a means to the full accomplishment of the objectives set forth in the resolution of November 14, 1947, a commission on Korea consisting of (five or seven member states) be established to continue the work of the Temporary Commission and carry out the recommendations, contained in this resolution, having in mind the status of the Government of the Republic of Korea as herein defined, and in particular too:

“A. Seek to facilitate the removal of existing barriers to commerce, travel and communications within Korea;

“B. Lend its good offices to bring about the unification of Korea in accordance with the principles laid down by the GA in the resolution of November 14, 1947.

“C. Seek to facilitate the integration under the authority of the Korean Government of all Korean security forces and the dissolution of all military or semi-military formations not included;

“D. Be available to assist the Korean people in developing representative forms of Government based on the freely expressed will of the people;

“E. Be available to assist the Korean people and Government to develop friendly relations with their neighbors;

“F. Observe the actual withdrawal of the occupying forces and verify the fact of withdrawal when such has occurred; and for this purpose, if it so desires, request the assistance of military experts of the two occupying powers;

“(5) Decides that the Commission;

“A. Shall, within 30 days of the adoption of this resolution, proceed to Korea, where it shall maintain its seat;

“B. Shall, thereupon be regarded as having superseded the Temporary Commission established by the resolution of November 14, 1947;

“C. Shall have the right to travel, consult and observe throughout Korea;

“D. Shall determine its own procedures;

“E. May consult with the Interim Committee (if it be continued) with respect to the application of this resolution in the light of developments, and within the terms of this resolution;

“F. Shall render a report to the next regular session of the GA and to any prior special session which might be called to consider the subject matter of this resolution, and shall render such interim reports as it may deem appropriate to the SYG for distribution to members;

“(6) Requests that the SYG provide the commission with adequate staff and facilities, including technical advisers as required; [1329면] and authorizes the SYG to pay the expenses and per diem of a representative and an alternate from each of the states members of the commission;

“(7) Calls upon member states concerned, the Government of the Republic of Korea, and all Koreans to afford every assistance and facility to the commission in the fulfillment of its responsibilities;

“(8) Calls upon member states to refrain from any acts which might impede or frustrate the efforts of the UN to achieve Korean independence and unity; and

“(9) Recommends that member states and other nations base their relations with the Government of the Republic of Korea upon recognition of the facts set out in paragraph (2) of this resolution.”

Marshall