top secret

[Washington,] May 11, 1948.

Subject: Replacement of Lieutenant General Hodge

Attached is the text of an outgoing telegram to CINCFE which was sent over by the Department of the Army for urgent clearance late yesterday afternoon. You will note that this message authorizes the issuance of orders, “at the earliest date consistent with events following the 10 May elections in south Korea”, returning Lieutenant General Hodge to Washington for reassignment and appointing Major General John B. Coulter, the next senior officer in Korea, to succeed him as Commanding General, USAFIK. There is also attached a self-explanatory memorandum by the Chief of Staff, U.S. Army, [주2] on the subject of General Hodge’s replacement. In view of the lateness of the hour and the urgent nature of the Army’s request for clearance, I cleared the attached telegram, which was seen also by Mr. Saltzman.

[1193면]

We in FE have felt for some time that the acute personal animosity existing between General Hodge and Dr. Rhee, considered in conjunction with the fact that the latter is expected to emerge as the dominant figure, if not the titular head, of the new government in South Korea, would make it highly desirable that General Hodge be replaced before that relationship could be allowed to jeopardize the success of the negotiations incidental to the transfer of authority to that government. With respect to the timing of this move, it has been our further view that General Hodge should remain in Korea until after the elections, but that he should be replaced prior to Dr. Rhee’s elevation to authority in order to avoid giving the impression that his replacement was arranged in order to placate Dr. Rhee. It would accordingly be desirable to move General Hodge before the meeting in about two weeks of the recently elected Assembly, as the Assembly will be the body which will give consideration to elevating Dr. Rhee to authority.

Although the north Korean Communists may endeavor to take credit for General Hodge’s departure (they having recently broadcast a demand that he “get out of Korea with his clothes packed”), it is felt that their manifest failure effectively to disrupt the recent elections will give the lie to any such claim.

It is understood to be the intention of the Department of the Army that the lapse of time between the announcement of General Hodge’s replacement and his actual departure will be as brief as possible.

W. W[alton] B[utterworth, Jr.]

[Annex 1]

The Joint Chiefs of Staff to General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, Tokyo

top secret

Information ComGenUSAFIK Seoul Korea Personal for Hodge from JCS.

With the conclusion of an important phase of the US occupation of Korea, the Joint Chiefs of Staff consider it appropriate to authorize now the replacement of General Hodge, Commanding General, USAFIK.

Because of careful timing necessary to avoid unfavorable political capital it is requested that your general headquarters coordinate with General Hodge and issue orders, at the earliest date consistent with events following the 10 May elections in South Korea, directing that he report to the Department of the Army, Washington, DC for further assignment. It is also requested that you concurrently appoint Major General John B. Coulter as Commanding General, USAFIK to succeed [1194면] General Hodge. In order to negate unfavorable political opportunism, it is considered that full advantage should be taken through simultaneous releases to the press in Washington, Tokyo and Seoul pointing out General Hodge’s accomplishments and naming his successor.

It is further requested that you notify the Department of the Army of date determined for General Hodge’s return and of time appropriate for simultaneous releases to press.

State concurs.

[Annex 2]

Memorandum by the Chief of Staff, US Army (Bradley)

top secret

Replacement of Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea

1.

Following the elections of 10 May 1948, in South Korea, it is expected that Syngman Rhee will emerge as a powerful influence over, if not the leader of, the new government in South Korea. Rhee has in the past conducted a continuous campaign of vehement attacks on Lieutenant General John R. Hodge, the Commanding General of United States Army Forces in Korea, since the commencement of the occupation. General Hodge recently pointed out, should he remain as CG, USAFIK during the crucial period of transfer of functions from the occupation force to the new government, it is possible, with Rhee’s vindictiveness, that relations with the new government may become somewhat awkward.

2.

CINCFE has expressed concurrence with the advisability of replacing General Hodge with a suitable commander at a propitious date consistent with events following the elections in South Korea. CINCFE has stated that he considers as suitable either Major General John B. Coulter or Major General Orlando Ward, both of whom are now assigned in Korea. Because they have been tactical commanders not involved in the political aspects of the occupation, neither has been the subject of attack by political groups in South Korea. General Coulter is the next senior officer to General Hodge in Korea, and the remaining portion of his present tour of overseas duty would, if found appropriate, permit his remaining to head any United States military mission which may be established in South Korea following the withdrawal of occupation forces.

3.

The inability to predict accurately the exact sequence of events following the elections precludes naming a specific date for termination of General Hodge’s assignment. The political implications also preclude [1195면] publication, in advance, of orders to effect General Hodge’s return to the United States. The Department of the Army, therefore, proposes that the Joint Chiefs of Staff authorize CINCFE now to effect General Hodge’s return to the United States and concurrently appoint General Coulter to command the United States Army Forces in Korea. The Department of State concurs in this action.

4.

It is accordingly recommended that a message worded substantially as that appended hereto (Inclosure 1) [주1] be dispatched immediately to CINCFE for action and to CG USAFIK for information.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Initialed by the Secretary of State and the Under Secretary of State.
[주2] General of the Army Omar N. Bradley.
[주1] Annex 1, p. 1193.
