secret 
 priority

Washington, July 10, 1948—1 a. m.

Following represents current thinking of Dept with respect to problem of recognition of Korean Govt expected to be formed shortly as result of May 10 elections:

1.

US Govt is cognizant of right of General Assembly to make its own decision, on basis of report and conclusions of UN Temporary Commission on Korea (UNTCOK), as to whether and to what extent [1236면] new Korean Govt constitutes fulfillment of aim of GA Resolutions of Nov 14, 1947 to reestablish natl independence of Korea, and is anxious to avoid any action which might be regarded as derogatory of that right.

2.

As occupying Power however US is confronted with fact that it must define its own attitude toward new govt before it can enter into negotiations therewith on subject of implementation of further provisions of GA Resolutions pertaining to transfer of functions of govt, withdrawal of occupation forces etc, negotiations which GA Resolutions stipulate should be undertaken immediately upon establishment of govt. Reluctance on part of US to initiate implementation of such further provisions once new govt has come into being would be susceptible of interpretation as lack of confidence in that govt and would tend to detract to that extent from latter’s prestige both within and outside Korea. In view of two to three month period likely to elapse between formation of govt and GA consideration of problem, and in view of fervor of Korean nationalist aspirations, refusal of US to take action pending GA deliberations might moreover give rise to serious problem of public order, for which US as occupying Power is responsible.

3.

US Govt feels strongly that very considerable progress which UN has so far made toward restoring freedom and independence to Korean people would be seriously jeopardized by any act on part of UNTCOK or its member States or of US which could be construed as disavowal of new govt. It believes further that, in light of special position occupied by US as initiator and leading proponent of GA Resolutions on Korea and as occupying Power from whose hands new govt will assume attributes of sovereignty, failure on its part promptly to accord new govt some form of recognition, however limited, would be so construed. Any weakening of prestige and authority of new govt in south would inevitably redound to advantage of Soviet puppet regime in north, with consequent lessening of chances of unification of Korea on anything but Soviet satellite basis.

4.

US Govt continues to adhere to view, which it believes is supported by GA Resolutions particularly as interpreted by Interim Committee, that question of whether or not new Korean Govt is to be considered a natl govt is one which must be decided by Korean people themselves through their recently elected representatives.

5.

To accept contention that govt in south must not be recognized as natl govt for reason that such action might lead to similar recognition of north Korean regime by Soviets would in US view be to admit impotence of UN to give effect to clearly-expressed will of overwhelming majority of its members in face of opposition of single Power [1237면] acting in defiance of that majority. It can, moreover, be argued with at least equal force that failure to recognize govt in south as natl govt would constitute open invitation to Soviets to consolidate position their puppet regime in north by according it such recognition. Recognition of new govt in south as govt of south Korea alone would tend to deepen present division of country and preclude broadening of govt to include north Korean reps.

6.

On basis foregoing considerations, Dept contemplating issuance of statement soon after formation new Korean Govt to effect that US Govt regards new govt as “Natl Govt of Korea envisaged by GA Resolutions” and that it is sending Special Rep to negotiate with that govt, in consultation with UNTCOK, concerning implementation further provisions those Resolutions.

In as much as one factor affecting final decision US Govt on recognition new Korean Govt will be attitude of other interested govts, you are requested in your discretion to communicate substance of foregoing to appropriate FonOff official, informally and in strictest confidence, and to report reaction at earliest opportunity.

Sent Canberra, Ottawa, Nanking, San Salvador, Paris, New Delhi, Manila, Damascus, London. Rptd Seoul for info. [주1]

Marshall

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Repeated as telegram 459, July 12, 5 p. m., to New York.
