confidential

Seoul, March 29, 1948.

190. Cite Zpol 389. On March 25 “Democratic Coalition Front” at Pyongyang adopted a letter, addressed to South Korean political parties and social organizations which oppose formation of separate government in South Korea, inviting their representatives to a conference at Pyongyang on April 14 to discuss unification of Korea by secret universal ballot after withdrawal of foreign troops. Letter, which was broadcast from Pyongyang (text transmitted in separate telegram [주1] ) ascribes current preparations for national government in South Korea as an American scheme and warns Koreans against “falling for it”.

In conversation last night (Draper, [주2] Hodge, Langdon, myself present) Kimm Kiusik revealed that 9 Leftist party leaders had actually received invitations to attend aforementioned conference and in addition that he, Kim Koo and four other so-called non-Leftist leaders had similarly been invited. He added however that his invitation and that of Kim Koo contained a recital of their “sins” against the nation, including that of being “running dogs” of Americans. Kim stated that his invitation indicated that those invited were expected to accept the North Korean ideology and policies. He said that he and Kim Koo, since they initiated the “conference idea”, had no alternative but to accept the invitation, but added that they would try to send up small liaison group first to make arrangements including promise of safe conduct. He seemed resigned to feeling that nothing would be accomplished and that he might even be sent to concentration camp. Am endeavoring to gather further particulars.

This invitation is definitely clever ruse calculated to confuse South Koreans by deluding them into belief that unification can thus be achieved and to divert their attention and interest from South Korean election. Already considerable interest has been aroused among Koreans and I fear some members of UNTCOK may take the matter seriously.

Since North Korean constitution is scheduled to come up for consideration about middle April, it can reasonably be assumed that Soviets may have in mind getting these South Korean leaders to Pyongyang to join in vote on its adoption. Even if Kimm Kiusik, Kim Koo and other two non-Leftist refuse to vote for the nine Leftist [1163면] leaders [possible omission] certainly will, and Pyongyang will proclaim that South Korea has approved new constitution.

Jacobs

----- 각주 -----
[주1] 191, March 29, from Seoul, not printed.
[주2] Gen. William H. Draper, Jr., Under Secretary of the Army, was on a mission to the Far East. A report of this mission was made in despatch 84, April 9, from Seoul, not printed. (895.50/4–948)
