top secret

Washington, July 8, 1948.

Dear Mr. Secretary: This will acknowledge your letter of June 23, 1948, in which you described plans and arrangements of the Department of the Army for implementation of National Security Council [1235면] Paper No. 8. You will also have received my letter of June 23, 1948 on the same subject. [주1]

Tour letter states:

“The Department of the Army, therefore, is proceeding on the assumption that conditions will be fulfilled which will permit the withdrawal of U.S. occupation forces from Korea by 31 December 1948 as envisaged in National Security Council Paper No. 8.”

You also state that a minimum of 45 days is required to initiate appropriate logistical and administrative action and that tactical withdrawal is scheduled to commence August 15, 1948. You ask concurrence prior to July 1 in the assumption and planning dates.

My letter of June 23 emphasized the importance of phasing the withdrawal from Korea in consonance with accomplishment of the objectives of United States policy in Korea and with the relevant commitments of the U.S. vis-à-vis the UN.

Because developments in Korea are still in progress, it is not possible at this relatively early date to assess the extent of accomplishment of United States policy objectives in that country. Such assessment can only be made in light of the developing situation.

I recognize the necessity for advance planning and scheduling. In the light of National Security Council Paper No. 8, therefore, I perceive no objection to August 15, 1948 as the date planned for commencement of tactical withdrawal nor to December 31, 1948 as the date planned for normal phasing to completion; provided, however, that your plans for the withdrawal operation are sufficiently flexible to provide for suspension, delay or other adjustment consistent with the extent of achievement of U.S. policy objectives with respect to that country.

Faithfully yours,

Robert A. Lovett

----- 각주 -----
[주1] See letter by the Secretary of State, p. 1224.
