priority

Seoul, August 9, 1948.

635. Cite Zpol 1220. Following is text of note tab A as received from President Rhee about noon today:

“I have the honor to inform you that, in consequence of the deliberations and acts of the Korean National Assembly, which was constituted [1269면] as a result of the election held on May 10, 1948, under the observation of the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea, there was formed as of August 5, 1948, the Government of the Republic of Korea. In accordance with paragraph 3, of Resolution II of the United Nations General Assembly Resolutions on Korea of November 14, 1947, the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea was notified on August 6, 1948, of the formation of this government.

In furtherance of the United Nations General Assembly Resolutions on Korea, particularly paragraph 4 of Resolution II, I have the honor further inform you that the Government of the Republic of Korea, after consultation with the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea, will be prepared to take over the functions of government. To that end, your cooperation and assistance are requested in transferring to the Government of the Republic of Korea all such functions now exercised by you as Commanding General United States Army Forces in Korea, including the direction of all police, coast guard and constabulary units now in being.

The Government of the Republic of Korea recognizes that it will be necessary for you to retain control over areas and facilities of vital importance to you (such as ports, camps, railways, lines of communications, airfields, etc.), as you deem necessary in order to accomplish the transfer of authority to the Government of the Republic of Korea and the withdrawal of United States Occupation Forces from Korea in accordance with the United Nations General Assembly Resolutions on Korea. During this period, the personnel of your command, both military and civilian, including their dependents, shall remain under your exclusive jurisdiction.

In the interest of providing a progressive and orderly transfer of full governmental responsibility and authority from the United States Army Forces in Korea to the Government of the Republic of Korea and to accomplish the purposes set forth above, I am prepared to name Mr. Lee Bum Suk, Mr. Yun Tchi Young and Mr. Taik Sang Chang [주1] to consult with representatives of your command.

Accept, sir, the assurances of my highest considerations.”

Jacobs

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Yun Chi Yung and Chang Taik Sang were Korean Ministers for Home Affairs and for Foreign Affairs, respectively.
