top secret

Washington, [June 23, 1948.]

Dear Mr. Secretary: As you know, on 8 April 1948, the President directed, in the language of NSC #8, that “It should be the effort of the U.S. Government through all proper means to effect a settlement of the Korean problem which would enable the U.S. to withdraw from Korea as soon as possible with a minimum of bad effects.” The President further directed that, “Every effort should be made to create conditions for the withdrawal of occupation forces by 31 December 1948”.

The Department of the Army has endeavored to fulfill its responsibilities under the President’s directive. The elections for the National Assembly of Korea on 10 May were successful. A sufficiently effective [1226면] force is being maintained to continue the responsibilities of Military Government in South Korea until the transfer of functions to the new National Government. The training and equipping of an expanded South Korean Constabulary and of the Civil Police and the Coast Guard are proceeding and these Security Forces are up to strength. The Department of the Army also is cooperating with the Department of State and other agencies in the preparation of the terms of agreement between the U.S. and Korean Governments. Concurrently, the Department of the Army has completed a plan for, and is now prepared to proceed with, the implementation of withdrawal; and is prepared to assist the State Department in the establishment of the U.S. diplomatic mission to represent U.S. interests in Korea following the withdrawal of occupation forces.

The recent appropriation for economic rehabilitation in Korea assures a continuation of United States interest in that country. The establishment of the mission in Korea which will supervise the administration of the aid program should further minimize any anticipated bad effects from the withdrawal of the U.S. occupation forces.

As you also know, in the interest of economy and prestige of the U.S. Government, and of effective planning for other commitments of the U.S. Armed Forces, the withdrawal of U.S. occupation forces from Korea demands considerate planning and implementation. As a measure toward fulfilling conditions for the withdrawal by 31 December 1948, the Department of the Army, with Department of State concurrence, commenced on 19 May 1948, the preparation phase of the withdrawal. Planning dates for the remaining phases, in which the Department of State has concurred, are:

15 August 1948—Commencement of tactical withdrawal

2 September 1948—U.S. Diplomatic Mission to Korea will assume direct administration of all U.S. responsibilities in Korea including those assumed under Aid Program; excepting purely military responsibilities relating to troops withdrawal.

The situation has developed during the past few months in Korea almost exactly as visualized by the members of the National Security Council when they reached the decision to withdraw from Korea (NSC #8). The Department of the Army therefore is proceeding on the assumption that conditions will be fulfilled which will permit the withdrawal of U.S. Occupation Forces from Korea by 31 December 1948 as envisaged in NSC No. 8. It is estimated that a minimum of 45 days will be required to initiate appropriate logistical and administrative action in connection with the withdrawal. Your concurrence, therefore, prior to July 1st is requested in the above assumption and planning dates.

Sincerely yours,

Kenneth C. Royall

[1227면]