restricted 
 urgent

Seoul, August 6, 1948.

628. Cite Zpol 8824. Quoted below is text of new government’s notice of its formation to UNTCOK in letter dated August 6 from Rhee to UNTCOK chairman Singh, copy of which was transmitted same date by Rhee to General Hodge:

“I have the honor to inform you that on August 5, 1948, the Korean National Assembly, which was constituted as a result of elections held [1267면] on May 16 [10] 1948, under observation of the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea, formed the Government of the Republic of Korea. This government has been formed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Korea, adopted by the National Assembly on July 12, 1948, and proclaimed on July 17, 1948. A copy of this constitution was transmitted for your information on July 14, 1948.

Preliminary to the formation of this government, the National Assembly, adopted the government organization law on July 16, 1948, a copy of which was transmitted to you for your information on July 21, 1948. The government, as organized, is in accordance with that law, which is based on the constitution.

In accordance with the constitution and the government organization law, on July 20, 1948, the undersigned, Syngman Rhee, was elected President, and Lee Shi Young was elected Vice President of the Republic of Korea, by votes of more than two-thirds of the members of the National Assembly.

Also, in accordance with the constitution of the Republic of Korea, Kim Pyung No was designated by the President as Chief Justice on August 5, 1948, and his appointment was approved by vote of the National Assembly on August 5, 1948.

Following the election of the President, Lee Bum Suk was appointed Prime Minister by the President, this appointment being concurred in by vote of the National Assembly August 2, 1948. Thereupon, the following gentlemen were appointed to the indicated posts. With the President and the Prime Minister, they form the Cabinet and hence the executive branch of the government: (Note: Here follow names of eleven Cabinet officers and their posts as transmitted Seoul PolAd’s 624 and 625, August 4. [주1] )

This notification of the formation of the Government of the Republic of Korea is being transmitted to the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea in accordance with paragraph three, resolution II, of the United Nations General Assembly resolution on Korea of November 14, 1947.

In furtherance of the United Nations General Assembly resolutions on Korea, I have the honor to request on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Korea, consultations with the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea, particularly with reference to paragraph four of resolution II, adopted November 14, 1947.

Accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.”

The letter to General Hodge reads as follows:

“I take pleasure in informing you that on this date I have informed the chairman of the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea of the formation of the Government of the Republic of Korea, and I enclose a copy of this communication.

I expect to communicate with you soon regarding the transfer of governmental powers from the United States Military Government to the Korean Government.

Accept, Sir, renewed assurance of my regard”.

[1268면]

Am advised that chairman Singh of UNTCOK advised chairman of liaison committee who delivered Rhee’s letter that he would place letter before UNTCOK tomorrow or Monday August 9.

Pass to IBD NY.

Jacobs

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Neither printed.
