secret

Seoul, August 12, 1948.

651. Cite 1242. I offer following comment for further consideration of decision to initiate withdrawal of US armed forces in Korea on September 15, and to issue press releases in regard thereto on August 15 and September 15, as is now planned if initial transfer of authority takes place as envisaged in WARX 86130, July 20.

Since whole chain of events now taking place in connection with our relationship with Korea is based on General Assembly resolution, we might lose all that we have gained if we initiate withdrawal, with publicity, on any date before General Assembly has considered Korean problem and reached some decision with regard thereto. In addition, it seems apparent that number of other matters will be decided, or at least discussed, at next session of General Assembly which will have important bearing on our future relationships with Soviet Union. I feel we should stand firm everywhere on Soviet perimeter, including Korea, until we know more clearly what actions will be taken in General Assembly and what will be outcome of our present negotiations with respect to Berlin and rest of Germany.

I am not averse to certain readjustment of American armed forces in Korea or withdrawal from Korea of such military supplies and stores as Army deems necessary and possibly some units as obviously, when new government takes over authority, there are certain functions now performed by military which will no longer be required. It is natural, therefore, that units in Korea can be regrouped for more efficient and expeditious withdrawal when time comes and more effectively deployed for action if that should become necessary. In fact, Army is already withdrawing certain stores and regrouping. What I am most apprehensive about is public announcement that we are initiating withdrawal on any given date before General Assembly has passed on Korea question.

Department may well wish therefore to take up this matter again with Department of Army.

Jacobs