confidential 
 priority

Seoul, February 17, 1948.

91. Cite Zpol 200. 1. It is learned that in course of debate at 14th plenary session of temporary commission (Seoul PolAd number 85 [주1] ) Patterson of Canada proposed resolution as follows:

In event Interim Committee directs temporary commission to go ahead with paragraph 2A

(1)

That temporary commission can inform authorities in South Korea, without interfering with US responsibility or control, to proceed with elections under temporary commission observation to elect representatives to be invited for interview by the General Assembly;

(2)

That free air for elections must be created by authorities;

(3)

That temporary commission examine carefully and make revision where necessary of [“?] the existing election laws in order that they may be compatible with such laws sanctioned by free UN nations.” Paul Boncour tried unsuccessfully to kill measure by referring it back to subcommittee but discussion was so prolonged that session ended without conclusive action thereon. Part of debate dealt with Djabi’s resolution concerning “free air for election” and attendant discussion (see Seoul PolAd number 83, February 13) which was off the record. Luna wanted précis of this discussion and was disconcerted when told “off the record” really meant off the record. Thus there would, seem to be no official record of this debate.

2. At ensuing 15th session yesterday Patterson reintroduced motion for passage of this resolution above but motion seems to have died natural death in meeting. At this session commission instructed subcommittee 2 to begin interviews with Americans (no names announced) and directed subcommittee 3 to complete its recommendations for an acceptable election law. Remainder of session taken up with discussion of expenses for election operations, including printing and airdropping of leaflets and secretariat was directed to negotiate question with command.

3. I met Patterson by chance yesterday evening and in course of long talk he brought out following: In light of developments commission can properly make three recommendations to Interim Committee: (a) to withdraw or dissolve commission since it cannot execute resolution; (b) to authorize commission to observe election of representatives [1115면] for consultation with General Assembly under resolution 1.; (c) to consider other measures. Under recommendation (c) arrangements by commission for conference of northern and southern leaders would be specifically proposed. There was preponderant sentiment in commission favoring recommendation (b) as it had most merit from following standpoints: it would keep UN in Korean picture and Korean question active in General Assembly, inasmuch as commission after completing election of consultees (elected representatives would select consultees among selves) could offer its services to USSR for same purposes, recalling that it was Russians’ own idea that elected representatives take part in General Assembly discussion. If Russians rejected offer there was no reason why they themselves could not conduct election of such representatives. In any event refusal to abide by their own proposals would put Russians in bad moral position. Moreover, US could utilize representatives elected under UN observation for its own purposes, as legislature, constituent assembly of national or interim government, etc. Menon will probably advocate adoption by interim committee of this course.

4. Patterson’s efforts during 14th session to obtain colleagues’ support of his resolution suggests that opinion within commission is not so preponderantly in favor of election of General Assembly consultees only as Patterson claims. It suggests also that Menon may not be speaking for a united commission when he advocates, as he probably will, an election of consultees only. From Patterson’s failure to make any mention of commission’s likelihood of supervising an election as envisaged in paragraph 2 of second resolution, as well as from hints from secretariat members, I gather no commissioner except the Chinese and perhaps Philippine has any thought of advocating seriously that the commission be party to establishment of a national government in South Korea. Apparently home governments see no point in antagonizing Russia in an issue of no vital interest to them. Indicative further that Menon is planning to engineer recommendation for an election of consultees only was Patterson’s inquiry whether we expected outbreaks on March 1st (chief day for Korean patriotic manifestations) and whether an announcement on or before that date would ease our difficulties with the population or whether it would be too disappointing to them.

5. Pyongyang announcement of North Korea plebiscite in March on draft provisional constitution of democratic people’s republic of Korea, which was released February 10th, also advertisement of Korean People’s Army (see PolAd number 75, February 11 [주2] ) may upset outcome anticipated by Patterson of Interim Committee hearing. However against possibility may not, suggestion is offered that Department begin thinking of an announcement on or before March 1st, [1116면] paralleling a possible UN announcement of a consultee election, to effect that United States plans to use same individuals elected in such elections for purpose of forming an interim government in South Korea.

Please forward copy to Jacobs.

Langdon

----- 각주 -----
[주1] February 13, not printed.
[주2] Not printed.
