secret 
 priority

Seoul, June 28, 1948.

Zgcg 967. It appears now that the UNTCOK has been pushed by American and Korean pressure into taking two more faltering steps forward in fulfillment of the 14 November UN resolution on Korea.

On Friday 25 June it dispatched a letter to the Korean National Assembly [주1] answering an 11 June letter from the chairman of the Korean National Assembly that officially informed the UNTCOK of the formation of the National Assembly, and accepted an invitation to attend a session of the National Assembly on Wednesday of this next week.

Also, on Friday it adopted a resolution, not yet released, that recognizes that the 10 May elections were held in a “reasonably free atmosphere” and that the elected representatives now in the Assembly represent the valid will of that two-thirds of the Korean population who live in those areas where the UNTCOK could operate (American zone). This resolution has not yet been made public, and is to be read by the UNTCOK chairman as a surprise conciliatory move to the Assembly upon occasion of the commission’s visit this week. Copies of the letter and resolution are being forwarded by Seoul PolAd. [주2]

The approval of both the letter and the resolution are reported to have been unanimous and followed the departure of Jackson (Australia) on Thursday, 24 June. The two days prior to Jackson’s departure were spent in long plenary sessions devoted to tearing down efforts by Jackson and Patterson to get critical and derogatory material into the body of Chapter 6 (covering the elections) of the UNTCOK report. It would appear that the approval of the letter and resolution now kill any change [chance] of adverse report by the UNTCOK.

[1230면]

Reliable information is that Jackson’s call back to Australia came as a surprise to him and he does not actually know what it means, although he intimates strongly that he will go to Paris to advise the Australian delegate in the General Assembly. His alleged final “press conference” indicates no change in his attitude against establishment of a Korean Government under the UN resolution. The fact that Jamieson has been ordered here to replace Jackson would indicate that possibly Jackson may not be in too high favor at home for his stubborn recalcitrate [recalcitrance] and his sticking stolidly to his Tokyo pre-indoctrination in spite of all he saw in Korea to prove the falsity of this indoctrination. It is interesting to note that Patterson of Canada, who arrived here with the same indoctrination has long ago dropped line original “line” and justifies his current stand purely on appeasement and legal technicalities as to the application of the UN resolutions. Both Jackson and Patterson have made every effort to justify the votes cast by the Australian and Canadian delegates against the 27 February interim committee resolution.

As a result of the action on Friday, it may be said that the UNTCOK is now up to date in its moves that should parallel the development of the Korean Government.

The next hurdle will be holding the UNTCOK here after the Korean Government is formed and getting it to consult with that government in carrying out provisions of paragraph four of 14 November resolution. The principal obstacle to keeping the UNTCOK on the job here will be the lack of understanding on the part of several delegates that the real job of the commission is outlined in paragraph four of 14 November resolution. Another considerable factor is Paul-Boncour’s grandiose idea he is selling to the delegates and secretariat that the UNTCOK must go to Paris in a body to make its report to the General Assembly. This plan includes travel by a specially chartered plane supplied by United Nations . . . .

Hodge

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Telegram 502, June 28, from Seoul, not printed.
[주2] Telegram 503, June 28, from Seoul, not printed.
