secret

Seoul, August 20, 1949.

Excellency: I wish at this time to bring to your attention some of the serious problems which are troubling me and the Korean people. As I sit in my home not much more than thirty miles from positions where soldiers of the Republic are defending with their lives the soil and the people of Korea against savage assaults of Communist armies, my thoughts most naturally turn to our grievous problems of defense. As President and Commander-in-Chief it is my responsibility to face those problems, and God willing, to find solutions for them. Unless I, and my Government, with the aid of our friends, do find solutions, the immediate future for our nation is bleak and bloody.

I trust, therefore, that you will pardon my request that you again consider the question of military aid after you yourself, and the great nation which you lead have already shown such sympathy and generosity to my country.

Mr. President, with the able advice of your Military Advisory Group, we have been training a small, competent, compact army. We Koreans, however, who have to face the Communist forces to the North of us, do not believe that our army is adequately supplied with ammunition for the battles which it must face. The coming six weeks are the most critical time.

Some American advisers assure me the Communists will never attack in force, and therefore we may rest easily, defended by our brave army. But how do these advisers know for certain? We Koreans believe that the Communists, under Soviet direction, intend to attack in force, that they will do so, and, if they do, it is we, the Koreans, civilian and military, who will pay the price, not the goodwilled American advisers. In fact they have started attacking us in various points.

I have stated before, and I state categorically again, that the Republic of Korea will not attack the territory north of the 38th parallel. But if the Communist forces do make an all out attempt to drive south and capture our capital, we shall use every strength we possess not only to defeat them and hurl them back, but also to attack their retreating [1076면] forces and in so doing to liberate our enslaved fellow countrymen in the north.

Mr. President, I beg that you will consider again the very great danger of Communist assault in the immediate future. American officers tell me we have sufficient ammunition for two months of combat; my own officers tell me it is only sufficient for two days. I am not a soldier and cannot determine these facts with accuracy, but I am convinced that the American advisers are thinking in terms of piecemeal warfare, whereas we Koreans believe that when war comes it will be full scale and total. We must have at present the necessary arms and ammunitions as quoted in the enclosed list. [주2]

The soldiers of the Republic are brave and loyal; they are skilled in the arts of war in no small degree because of American training and equipment. But, Mr. President, they must not be left without adequate supply of arms and munitions.

I have taken the liberty of writing you in a hurry since our defense problems are in a most critical situation. When the military aid bill is passed by Congress, I am sure you will make a maximum allotment for Korea. I am preparing a separate list for overall military aid that Korea will need. But what I appeal for in this letter is only what we must have on hand now for the protection of our defenseless citizens of the south.

With sincere regards and highest personal esteem,

Most sincerely yours,

Syngman Rhee

----- 각주 -----
[주1] The source text is a copy of the letter transmitted to Seoul under cover of instruction 63, October 7 (not printed), along with President Truman’s reply, September 26, p. 1084.
[주2] Not printed.
