top secret

[Washington,] September 26, 1949.

Excellency: Before replying to your letter of August twentieth on the subject of immediate requirements of the military forces of the Republic of Korea, I have taken occasion to review the nature of and the considerations affecting the military assistance provided to Korea by the United States Government.

As you know, in order to aid the Republic of Korea in maintaining internal security and to assist in building Korean military forces which will serve effectively to deter external aggression, this Government already has provided a considerable amount of military equipment, valued at approximately $56,000,000, and has established a United States Military Advisory Group in Korea. Also, there is under consideration at present a world-wide program which, if approved by the Congress, will include provisions for additional military assistance to the Republic of Korea. [주2]

This Government feels that the security of the Republic of Korea can best be served by the development of an efficient, compact Korean [1085면] force rather than by amassing large military forces which would be an insupportable burden on the economy of the country. This, of course, must be a guiding principle in the extension of aid to any country participating in the Military Assistance Program. It is felt that the additional assistance which would become available upon approval of the program now before the Congress would be adequate to provide for the maintenance of the equipment already at hand in Korea plus a limited amount of replacement items.

If the Congress approved [approves?] the currently pending military aid legislation I will be most happy to advise you through Ambassador Muccio of the provisions made thereunder for assistance to the Republic of Korea. In order that such assistance be availed of with the least delay possible, specific requirements should be submitted to Ambassador Muccio so that implementing action may be taken by the United States Government.

As you are aware, the United States Military Advisory Group under Brigadier General W. L. Roberts has been established in Korea which, among its other duties, is responsible to the Ambassador in rendering advice on the program requirements of the Korean security forces falling under the Military Assistance Program.

This same procedure necessarily applies to the detailed requirements which formed the enclosure to your letter of August twentieth, a copy of which is being transmitted to Ambassador Muccio. [주3]

I assure you, Mr. President, that this Government is fully aware of the importance of the security problem confronting the Republic of Korea and that the subject of military aid is receiving the sympathetic consideration it merits. [주4]

With sincere regards and highest personal esteem,

Very sincerely yours,

Harry Truman

----- 각주 -----
[주1] The source text is a copy of the letter transmitted to Seoul under cover of instruction 63, October 7 (not printed).
[주2] See the editorial note under date of October 6, p. 1086.
[주3] Not printed.
[주4] In a memorandum of conversation (not printed), dated October 20, Ambassador Muccio said that he handed President Truman’s letter to President Rhee on that date. President Rhee read the letter aloud and then remarked: “I see, that is fine.” Ambassador Muccio’s memorandum of conversation was transmitted to the Department under cover of despatch 699, October 25, from Seoul (not printed). (895.20/10–2549)
