top secret

Seoul, April 22, 1949.

421. Re Deptel 256, April 19 requesting comments CINCFE CX 69328 April 18. [주1]

I go along for planning purposes with schedule established therein. As requested in mytel 403, April 16 [주2] no announcement should for the time being indicate that we have definite date withdrawal in mind.

Reaction to Rhee’s statement April 18 [주3] generally favorable and being cabled separately. [주4] Since then, I have not been able to go back and resume discussions with President Rhee and cannot do so until I can give him more definite indications of just what equipment, supplies, etc., we shall make available.

As reported my 374, April 12 plans are progressing rapidly for transfer equipment, supplies and consumption requirements for the Army, also for repair Japanese arms and manufacture ammunition therefor. I am now drafting note to President transmitting list prepared [995면] by USAFIK showing allocations, transfers effected and additional items available. Rhee is selecting a three member cabinet committee to assure preservation and effective use these supplies and has requested competent American officer to work directly with this Committee.

I hope Department can expedite information requested in last two paragraphs of mytel 374 regarding provisions contemplated to meet sorely needed requirements of Coast Guard, for repairs and rehabilitation of American arms and equipment, aircraft and police. I shall resume my discussion with President as this information is received. With assurances that this additional material will be on hand prior withdrawal I do not anticipate any difficulty in finalizing agreement with Rhee on date withdrawal we desire.

Early announcement formalization KMAG would be helpful. UNCOK considering my letter to President [주5] this afternoon. I have been informally in close constant touch with delegates. Several still feel that commission’s term of reference do not provide for commission participation in discussions. Others have inquired what steps commission should take and what is intended by term “consultation”.

I have limited my reply to indication that it is for commission to decide on their function and purposely refrained from committing myself. Text my letter of transmittal to commission follows:

“Sir: I have the honor to transmit a copy of a letter which I have addressed today to the President of the Republic of Korea, paragraph four of which relates specifically to the question of troop withdrawal.

“It is the policy of my government to keep the commission fully informed of all steps taken that may affect its activities, and I shall therefore keep the commission currently informed of developments relating to this subject”. [주6]

Muccio

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Neither printed. Telegram CX 69328 dealt with the schedule for withdrawal of U.S. forces from Korea.
[주2] Not printed.
[주3] See the memorandum by Mr. Butterworth, April 18, p. 992.
[주4] In his telegram 433, April 23, from Seoul (not printed), Mr. Muccio said that President Rhee’s statement had touched off a tremendous public discussion in political circles and in the press. Korean opinion was generally favorable, although considerable apprehension was noted in rightist circles. Kimm Kiu-sik and Kim Koo, opposition political leaders, hailed withdrawal as a step toward peaceful unification. Meanwhile, said Mr. Muccio, the “Communists, persistent withdrawal advocates, appear confused by developments and awaiting party line.” (895.00/4–2349)
[주5] April 14, p. 989.
[주6] Following the discussion of Mr. Muccio’s letter at its April 22 meeting, UNCOK decided that its members would consult informally with the U.S. Ambassador at an early date (see U.N. document A/936, p. 10).
