October 21, 1949

The Problem of the Independence of Korea

The General Assembly,

Having regard to its resolutions 112 (II) of 14 November 1947 and 195 (III) of 12 December 1948 concerning the problem of the independence of Korea,

Having considered the report of the United Nations Commission on Korea, and having taken note of the conclusions reached therein,

Mindful of the fact that, due to difficulties referred to in the report of the Commission, the objectives set forth in the resolutions referred to have not been fully accomplished, and in particular that the unification of Korea and the removal of barriers to economic, social and other friendly intercourse caused by the division of Korea have not yet been achieved,

Having noted that the Commission has observed and verified the withdrawal of United States occupation forces, but that it has not been accorded the opportunity to observe or verify the reported withdrawal of Soviet occupation forces,

Recalling its declaration of 12 December 1948 that there has been established a lawful government (the Government of the Republic of Korea) having effective control and jurisdiction over that part of Korea where the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea was able to observe and consult and in which the great majority of the people of Korea reside; that this Government is based on elections which were a valid expression of the free will of the electorate of that part of Korea and which were observed by the Temporary Commission; and that this is the only such Government in Korea,

Concerned lest the situation described by the Commission in its report menace the safety and well-being of the Republic of Korea and of the people of Korea and lead to open military conflict in Korea,

[1091면]

1.

Resolves that the United Nations Commission on Korea shall continue in being with the following membership: Australia, China, El Salvador, France, India, Philippines and Turkey and, having in mind the objectives set forth in the General Assembly resolutions of 14 November 1947 and 12 December 1948 and also the status of the Government of the Republic of Korea as defined in the latter resolution, shall:

(a)

Observe and report any developments which might lead to or otherwise involve military conflict in Korea;

(b)

Seek to facilitate the removal of barriers to economic, social and other friendly intercourse caused by the division of Korea; and make available its good offices and be prepared to assist, whenever in its judgment a favourable opportunity arises, in bringing about the unification of Korea in accordance with the principles laid down by the General Assembly in the resolution of 14 November 1947;

(c)

Have authority, in order to accomplish the aims defined under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of the present paragraph, in its discretion to appoint observers, and to utilize the services and good offices of one or more persons whether or not representatives on the Commission;

(d)

Be available for observation and consultation throughout Korea in the continuing development of representative government based on the freely-expressed will of the people, including elections of national scope;

(e)

Verify the withdrawal of Soviet occupation forces in so far as it is in a position to do so;

2.

Decides that the Commission:

(a)

Shall meet in Korea within thirty days from the date of the present resolution;

(b)

Shall continue to maintain its seat in Korea;

(c)

Is authorized to travel, consult and observe throughout Korea;

(d)

Shall continue to determine its own procedures;

(e)

May consult with the Interim Committee of the General Assembly (if it be continued) with respect to the discharge of its duties in the light of developments and within the terms of the present resolution;

(f)

Shall render a report to the next regular session of the General Assembly and to any prior special session which might be called to consider the subject matter of the present resolution, and shall render such interim reports as it may deem appropriate to the Secretary-General for transmission to Members;

(g)

Shall remain in existence pending a new decision by the General Assembly;

3.

Galls upon Member States, the Government of the Republic of Korea, and all Koreans to afford every assistance and facility to the Commission in the fulfilment of its responsibilities, and to refrain from any acts derogatory to the purposes of the present resolution;

4.

Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Commission with adequate staff and facilities, including technical advisers and observers as required; and authorizes the Secretary-General to pay the expenses [1092면] and per diem of a representative and an alternate from each of the States members of the Commission and of such persons as may be appointed in accordance with paragraph 1 (c) of the present resolution.

233rd Plenary Meeting.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] United Nations, Official Records of the Fourth Session of the General Assembly: Resolutions, 20 September–10 December, 1949 (U.N. document A/1251), pp. 15–16. This resolution was adopted by a vote of 48 (including the U.S.) to 6, with 3 abstentions. The text of a statement by Charles Fahy before the U.N. General Assembly on October 20 in support of the resolution is printed in the Department of State Bulletin, November 7, 1949, p. 694. See also the editorial note under date of September 29, p. 1085. The Ad Hoc Political Committee of the General Assembly had approved the above resolution on October 3 by a vote of 44 to 6, with 5 abstentions. On the same date, it rejected a U.S.S.R. draft resolution (U.N. document A/AC.31/6) calling for the termination of UNCOK by an identical vote. The Soviet draft resolution was re-submitted to the General Assembly (U.N. document A/1024) which rejected it, on October 21, by a vote of 42 to 6, with 5 abstentions. For further details, see Yearbook of the United Nations, 1949, p. 291, and United States Participation in the United Nations: Report by the President to the Congress for the Year 1949, Department of State pub. 3765 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1950), p. 34.
