secret

Seoul, May 9, 1949—6 p. m. 
 [Received May 9—7:11 a. m.]

515. 1. Accompanied by General Roberts and Drumright, I called on President Rhee afternoon 7th, invited his attention to press statements set forth mytels 505 [주1] and 506, May 7, and told him I was disturbed and even shocked by their tone and content. I said I regarded their release as unfortunate and likely to contribute to Korean-American misunderstanding rather than to mutual confidence and good-will. I pointed out that a whipped-up press campaign directed to US people was particularly harmful at this juncture when US Government is considering question further economic and military aid Korea. I also took occasion state US had never entered into mutual defense pact with any single nation, adding constant public reference here was embarrassing and would be productive of no favorable result. [주2]

2. Rhee responded statement set forth mytel 506 had been released without his express authorization. He went on, however, to defend in general way position adopted in statement, saying he in difficult position vis-à-vis Korean people and in need some definite understanding with US in defense Korea following US troop withdrawal. While conversation on this subject terminated inconclusively, I have hopes Rhee will be more careful re future releases.

3. Later when discussion turned to recent 38th parallel incidents I took occasion urge Rhee to restrain ROK (Republic of Korea) forces from taking any aggressive action, pointing out such action would jeopardize good-will his government now enjoys with all nations except Soviet bloc. Rhee replied ROK harbors no aggressive aims, had not taken initiative at Kaesong, but would never yield inch ROK territory to invaders. Rhee asserted over and over his government would fight to last man against Communist aggression no matter what help might be received from US.

Muccio

[1014면]

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Not printed; it reported President Rhee’s responses to questions on matters other than U.S. troop withdrawal, which was covered in telegram 506 (supra). Among other things, President Rhee complained about lack of U.S. assistance to South Korea in the form of military equipment and weapons (805.00/5–749).
[주2] President Rhee had indicated displeasure with the lack of progress toward negotiations for a mutual defense agreement between the United States and the Republic of Korea (895.00/5–749).
