secret

Washington, April 28, 1949—8 p. m.

299. ReDeptel 210 Apr 5 and urtel 370 Apr 2 [12]. You may in your discretion address to Pres Rhee in response his request for US mil mission affirmative reply along fol lines:

I have the honor to refer to your ltr of Nov 2 1948, in which you requested the establishment of a US mil and naval mission in Korea, and to my interim reply of Nov 5 thereto. [주1]

As you know, there has been in existence on a provisional basis for more than 8 months a US mil mission known as the Provisional Mil Advisory Group whose function it has been to advise and assist the Korean Govt in the development and training of its own security forces. It is the judgment of my Govt that, due in no small part to the spirit of eager cooperation which has been shown by the Korean Govt and its responsible officials, the work of the Provisional Mil Advisory Group has contributed signficantly to raising the capabilities of the security forces of the Republic of Korea. This judgment wld seem to be substantiated by your own recent statement to the effect that Korean defense forces “are now rapidly approaching the point at which our security can be assured, provided the Republic of Korea is not called upon to face attack from foreign sources”. [주2]

In order to assure the continuance of this progress without further dependence upon the presence of US occupation forces in Korea, my Govt has decided to establish an augmented Korean Mil Advisory Group (KMAG) to function as a part of the Am Mission in Korea, with responsibility for the training mission heretofore undertaken by the Provisional Mil Advisory Group, Under my overall direction as Amb, the Korean Mil Advisory Group will be headed by Brig Gen W. L. Roberts, presently Commanding General, US Army Forces in Korea, and Commanding Officer of the Provisional Mil Advisory Group. Further details concerning the composition of the new Mil Advisory Group will be discussed at an appropriate time with the proper officials of your Govt. (End of text)

[998면]

While foregoing merely suggested text request any substantive changes be cleared here. Dept shld in any event be advised of final form of ltr for purposes coordinated public release.

First para foregoing text raises question advisability specific mention Rhee’s ltr Nov 2 in view request contained therein for increase of Army to 100,000 to which we unable give favorable reply. [주3]

Acheson

----- 각주 -----
[주1] See Foreign Relations, 1948, vol. vi, p. 1320.
[주2] The quotation is from President Rhee’s statement of April 18; see the memorandum by Mr. Butterworth bearing the same date, p. 992.
[주3] Ambassador Mucccio’s reply to this message, contained in telegram 470, May 2, from Seoul read as follows: “I propose sending Rhee late today letter identical with text furnished by Department except first paragraph as follows: ‘I have the honor to refer to your request for a US military and naval mission and to recent references thereto in our discussions looking towards setting a date for the early withdrawal of US occupation forces.’ “It appears preferable not to refer to Rhee’s letter of November 2 especially as copy of my letter of today’s date will be sent UNCOK.” (895.20 Mission/5–249) The text of the letter, May 2, from Ambassador Muccio to President Rhee is printed in U.N. document A/936/Add.1, p. 39 and in the Department of State Bulletin, June 19, 1949, p. 786. It was released for publication on June 8.
