confidential

Seoul, June 10, 1950—11 a. m.

837. Re Embtel 834, June 9.

Subsequent despatch reference telegram UNCOK reconsidered, decided send Deputy Principal Secretary, John P. Gaillard, Yohyun meet North Koreans. Should he be allowed cross parallel, Gaillard would accept letter from Northerners; give them copies UNGA Korean resolution, October 21, 1949; Jamieson’s radio address May 1; Singh’s addresses May 3 and 18; Jamieson’s address June 9; assert UNCOK’s desire assist unification through elections, willingness go north earliest; Gaillard not empowered discuss anything else.

Jamieson broadcast English 1820 June 9, followed by Korean interpretation; latter repeated 4 times same night; included was offer send Gaillard for meeting 1600 today, asking radio reply before 1000. Without reference UNCOK, Pyongyang radio 0800 extended waiting time to 2100, possibly preparatory reply.

Jamieson broadcast, text unanimously agreed by UNCOK, follows, preceded by explanatory statement for South Korea issued to press last night.

“At its 28th meeting on Friday, 9 Jun 1950, the United Nations Commission on Korea decided to broadcast the following radio message to North Korea in connection with a letter of appeal from North Korean sources concerning unification of all Korea, an appeal repeatedly broadcast over radio Pyongyang on June 7, 8 and 9, 1950. Radio Pyongyang at the same time stated that 3 North Koreans would be present at Yohyun, north of the 38th parallel, on June 10, 1950, between 10 a. m. and 5 p. m. to deliver copies of the appeal to political parties, social organizations and leaders of the southern half as well as to the United Nations Commission. In making this broadcast the Commission does not associate itself in any way with the substance of the proposals contained in the letter of appeal. It is merely utilizing this opportunity to make contact in North Korea with representatives of the North Koreans in line with its previous efforts to reach representatives of the North in order to explore the possibilities of peaceful unification.

“The text of the broadcast follows:

‘For almost a year and a half the United Nations Commission on Korea has tried to get in contact with the people in North Korea for the purpose of discussing the possibilities of removing [102면] the barrier at the 38th parallel and achieving peaceful unification of Korea. The terms of reference of the Commission, fixed by the General Assembly of United Nations on 21 October 1949, requests the Commission to make available its good offices and be prepared to assist whenever in the judgment a favorable opportunity arises in bringing about the unification of Korea. In pursuance of the task, I, as chairman of the Commission, on May 1, 1950, made a broadcast to the people of all Korea to appeal for their co-operation in achieving unification. On May 3, and again on May 11, Dr. Singh, chairman of sub-committee one [and?] representative of India, made special appeals to the people of North Korea explaining that the Commission was searching for unity, to break down economic and social barriers and for this purpose was anxious to visit North Korea to carry out its mission. On behalf of the Commission Dr. Singh extended to you in the North, in utter sincerity, its hand of friendship and its offer to visit you in the North. The sole purpose of the Commission is to carry out the mandate of the General Assembly, aiming at unification, which is the fervent desire of all true Koreans.

‘The Commission is aware of the broadcasts made from North Korea in the last few days containing an invitation to the Commission to meet representatives of the North Koreans on the other side of the parallel. The Commission welcomes this opportunity to establish contact with some representatives from the North and deputi[z]es Mr. Gaillard, Acting Deputy Principal Secretary of the Commission, to meet you at 1600 hours at Yohyun station on June 10 and convey personally to you the Commission’s desire for peaceful unification. I would remind you that we are available for observation and consultation throughout Korea in the continuing development of representative government. On this occasion, however, the Commission has authorized me, as chairman, to explain to you again, people in the North, that the Commission is always ready and willing to meet you and come to the North in order to discuss with you, without prejudice, the possibilities of achieving unification.

‘The Commission would appreciate hearing by 9 a. m. North Korean time tomorrow morning whether you are willing to meet Mr. Gaillard at the time specified.’”

Department pass Moscow; sent Department 837, repeated info Moscow unnumbered.

Muccio