restricted

Seoul, May 5, 1950—6 p. m.

640. Embtel 623, May 4. Continuing press reaction Connally statement Korea. All Seoul newspapers May 5, carried wire service stories [67면] Secretary of State’s clarification Connally statement without comment. [주1]

Two May 6 newspapers on street late today (Seoul, Kyung Hyang) prominently featured AP story Muccio statement. [주2] Kyung Hyang editorial captioned “refuting Connally’s foolish idea” identified Korea with America’s fight against Soviet, emphasized difficulty and determination Korean struggle against Communism. Said Connally’s statement did not represent view American people nor US State Department that in view determination Democratic Party and strong Congressional diplomatic policy toward Soviet could not understand Connally’s statement since he famous politician and leader Senate Foreign [Relations] Committee. Pointed out US committed aid Korea by international agreement, defense line Japan, Okinawa, Philippines indefensible if Korea Communist.

Secretary of State’s statement was received with acclaim and largely vitiated damage resulting from Connally statement. In his weekly press conference with foreign correspondents today President commented saw Acheson’s statement “and clarifies Connally statement. I think Acheson referred to failure joint commission. [주3] US made every effort get Soviet withdrawal from north but they didn’t.”

Drumright

[68면]

----- 각주 -----
[주1] On May 3, Mr. Acheson held a news conference, a memorandum of which for the record was prepared by Mr. Michael McDermott, Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Press Relations. The Secretary was asked to comment on Senator Connally’s views on Korea and observed that the Department had continuously stressed the importance which it attached to South Korea. “He stated,” read the memorandum, “that it [the Department] had recounted its efforts to establish Korea as an independent nation, that it had told how the Soviet Union had made it impossible to unify the whole country and how under the United Nations Commission the United States had gone forward with the other nations in establishing Southern Korea; that the United States had been and was now giving them very substantial economic help, military assistance and advice.” Mr. Acheson concluded by saying that he doubted very much whether Senator Connally took a different view from that which the Secretary had just stated. Secretary Acheon was then asked about Owen Lattimore’s recent suggestions that the United States should withdraw from South Korea, which, since this course of action seemed unlikely in view of the Secretary’ comments, might be taken to indicate that Dr. Lattimore was not the architect of Far Eastern policy. Mr. Acheson replied that that was a pretty good assumption.
[주2] On May 4, Ambassador Muccio, who had paid a visit to President Truman at the White House, was quoted as saying that there could be no doubt of the eagerness of the United States to maintain Korean independence, toward which end the United States was providing political support directly and through the United Nations, as well as military and economic assistance. Ambassador Muccio also expressed optimism about the Korean Government’s ability to control inflation and spoke with enthusiasm about the attitude of top Korean officials concerning the upcoming elections.
[주3] The joint U.S.-Soviet commission had been established at the Moscow Conference in December 1945 (see Foreign Relations, 1945, vol. vi, p. 1150) for the purpose of setting up a provisional government for all of Korea. The commission met in 1946 and 1947 but became deadlocked; see ibid., 1946, vol. viii, pp. 637–638, 679–681, and ibid., 1947, vol. vi, pp. 601 ff.
