confidential 
 No. 569

Seoul, May 29, 1950.

Subject: Improvement of Korean Army Logistical Situation

There is transmitted, for the Department’s information, a copy of a circular instruction issued by the Chief, KMAG, to the KMAG Advisors on the subject of the logistical situation in the Korean Army, on the steps being taken to improve it, and on the responsibilities resting on KMAG personnel to assist in this endeavor.

The Embassy is glad to report that much attention is currently being paid to the problem of effecting economies in the operations of the Korean Army. Much waste has already been eliminated. Particular attention, on the insistence of KMAG, is being paid to the conservation of vehicles, with a goodly proportion now being put in reserve. Fuel economies have also been marked. Accounting procedures and practices are being revamped to conform to modern efficient methods. Elimination of the vicious system of contributions, voluntary or forced, is also under way.

Persistent and unremitting effort will have to be made, particularly on the part of KMAG, to see to it that logistical reforms are consolidated and retained. Appreciable progress is being made. It is expected that even more progress will be made in the future.

For the Ambassador: 


Everett F. Drumright

Counselor of Embassy

[93면]

[Enclosure]

The Chief of the United States Military Advisory Group to the Republic of Korea (Roberts) to all KMAG Advisors

confidential

5 May 1950.

Subject: KA Logistical Situation

1.

The purpose of this letter is to acquaint all advisors with the logistical situation in the Korean Army, steps that are being taken to improve it, and the ways in which advisors can assist in carrying out these steps.

2.

The original U.S. commitment was to supply the Korean Army with an initial issue of equipment and a six months supply of spare parts for a strength of 50,000. Later an additional 15,000 individual weapons were supplied. The result of the increase in strength to 100,000 has been a serious deficiency in major items of equipment. The six months supply of parts is exhausted, and it is estimated that 10 to 15% of the weapons and 30 to 35% of the vehicles are unserviceable. It is tentatively planned by Dept. of Army that the spare parts approved for issue to Korea under 1950 MDAP will not arrive until some time in FY 52. The Korean economy lacks the resources to supply these parts from its own production or from foreign exchange. It is very seriously threatened with continuation of the inflationary spiral which, if it is not halted, may very well wreck the economy entirely. The attempts to control this spiral have necessitated a very limited budget for the Armed Forces for the FY just begun. All items of issue will be in short supply and funds for all services will be deficient. The significance of this situation is that unless prompt, effective and vigorous measures are taken to conserve available resources the Army will be dangerously reduced in fire power, mobility and logistical support. The economy will deteriorate further and be unable to support either the military establishment or the civil and political movement toward a free and democratic country. In short, Korea is threatened with the same disaster that befell China.

3.

There are numerous deficiencies and unsound practices which have contributed to the situation outlined above. There has never been established a sound basis in regulations, orders, doctrine and standing operating procedures upon which to build a good logistical system and govern its operation. Allowances of supplies and equipment, instructions for handling them, maintenance procedures, and other logistical matters have been largely prescribed by piecemeal, uncoordinated, inadequate instructions, often in oral form. The result is confusion and ignorance as to proper procedures. To this has been added the deficiencies of Korean practices, personnel and concepts outlined in Inclosure 1. [주1]

[94면] 4.

The Advisory Staff to KA Hqs is taking vigorous action to correct the deficiencies and to improve the logistical situation. There is no doubt that the deficiencies can be corrected. However, to do so will require the utmost efforts of the entire Group working together in close cooperation and coordination. Following is an outline of the steps being taken:

a.

The G–4 Section, KA, has been reorganized upon Advisor’s recommendations in such a manner as to enable it to function efficiently. Every step is being taken to increase the speed, efficiency and effectiveness of the units and individuals responsible for logistical support of combat units.

b.

Strong representations are made at frequent intervals to the U.S. Dept of Army and Dept of State in an attempt to secure additional military aid and to expedite delivery of the approved FY 50 Aid Program. Advisors must understand and the Koreans should understand that the US has many large and important commitments for aid and that therefore some delay is unavoidable in delivery of aid goods. Current efforts to expedite this delivery have already achieved some success, and more success is anticipated.

c.

The Embassy and ECA are making constant and vigorous efforts to improve the functioning of the government and the economy and to control the inflationary spiral. The most important device for this purpose is the Stabilization Committee, which contains both Korean and American members. It has made considerable progress toward accomplishing its mission.

d.

Existing deficiencies have been repeatedly brought to the attention of the Minister of National Defense, the Chief of Staff, the G–4 and others concerned, and recommendations for their correction have been made. These efforts are beginning to show results. The Koreans have begun to take stern disciplinary measures against offenders. They have reconciled themselves to the fact that they must live within a limited budget and are trying to work out for themselves effective measures for doing so. They have begun to scale down their overambitious ideas about the standard of equipment and living for the Army. They have also begun to adhere more closely to proper channels for supply and to directives concerning supplies. They have instituted a large salvage program and thereby relieved the stagnation in the disposition of salvage which existed a short time ago. Their staff work is becoming better coordinated and more sound. They will stop the allocation of funds to unit and installation commanders except for pay and travel and for purchase of perishable items of the ration. This means that all other goods and services will be procured through the Central Procurement Agency as is proper.

e.

In order to hasten the effective implementation of the recommendations mentioned above the advisory staff is preparing comprehensive, detailed plans to guide the Koreans. Some of the major projects are:

(1)

A study of the requirements for regulations, manuals, bulletins, tables of allowances, orders, and standing operating procedures to establish a basis for a sound logistical system. These publications will then be drafted and issued.

[95면] (2)

A program to insure enforcement of the recently prescribed ordnance maintenance system.

(3)

A plan to impart to the Koreans a sound understanding of the meaning, scope and importance of supply discipline, to establish high standards of supply discipline, and to insure its enforcement.

(4)

A conservation program to insure the most economical use of funds, supplies and equipment and thereby to live within the budget.

(5)

A plan to insure that supplies, equipment and funds are handled according to regulations.

(6)

Plans to redistribute supplies and equipment so that they are properly balanced and so that an adequate combat reserve may be constituted.

(7)

A plan to establish accurate statistical data on logistical matters and an adequate system of logistical reports, and to insure proper rendition of accurate reports.

(8)

Continuing formulation of logistical doctrine to be taught at schools and education of Korean officers in proper staff procedure and methods and techniques of planning.

(9)

A program of troop housing for the Army.

(10)

Plans for logistical support of the Army defense plans.

5.

It will require much time and effort to make these plans and place them in operation. The assistance of every member of the Advisory Group will be required in doing so. Following are some of the ways in which each member is expected to assist.

a.

Imparting to his counterpart an understanding of the problems and their proper solution, and stimulating him to take vigorous action toward their solution.

b.

Educating his counterpart to an understanding of his responsibilities in connection with supply and the means of carrying them out.

c.

Reporting violations of sound practices and prescribed procedures promptly and in full detail to the Chief, KMAG, Attention G–4.

d.

Devising and practicing every possible means for economizing in the operation of the Army. This means that advisors must be thoroughly conversant with the procedures used by their counterparts for handling of supplies, equipment and funds. They must rigidly control the tendency to hoard, misuse, and misappropriate funds and supplies. They must control the practice of disobeying orders and circumventing orders by devious means such as borrowing and soliciting of funds. The collection of contributions is a particularly vicious and undemocratic practice. Every effort must be made to detect it and all instances will be reported to Chief, KMAG.

e.

Preventing the purchase of goods and services by their counterparts. Whenever goods or services are required, recommendations should be made to the chief of the appropriate technical service. He supplies the goods or services if they are available to him. If they are not, he submits a purchase request to the Central Procurement Agency. Goods, when procured, are handled through the supply channels of the technical services and must not bypass these channels. This procedure is most important. The violation of it has resulted in a tremendous waste of funds and must cease absolutely and at once.

[96면] f.

Preventing the sale or barter of equipment, supplies, and salvage. These absolutely must be disposed of through prescribed channels if a sound logistical system is to be built.

g.

Constantly checking on compliance with the recently published directive on ordnance maintenance and taking vigorous action to correct violations. Insuring compliance with forthcoming directives in implementation of the plans mentioned above. Such directives will be issued in both Korean and English.

h.

Taking every possible precaution to insure that funds are used in the most effective manner possible and for legal and proper purposes only.

i.

Devising and implementing his own methods for establishing and maintaining high standards of supply discipline and maintenance.

j.

Rendering accurate reports on logistical matters and seeing that his counterpart does the same. Inaccurate reports have been submitted quite often in the past. They require a great deal of time in investigation and reconciliation with facts, throw the entire logistical system off balance, and prevent concentration on the important planning work which must be done. Reports must be based on facts as nearly as can be determined by thorough and conscientious investigation.

6.

The tactical organization and training of the KA has shown gratifying progress. This is not true of the logistical practices and procedures. The best fighting troops are virtually worthless if they cannot support themselves logistically. KMAG will make the solution of the problems outlined herein a major effort. Advisors will place equal emphasis on logistical matters and training, and each will be held strictly responsible for carrying out his part of this effort. Recipients of this letter will insure that it is studied by all KMAG officers under their supervision.

W. L. Roberts

Brig. Gen., U.S. Army

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Not printed.
