895.01/8–3145: Telegram

The Ambassador in China (Hurley) to the Secretary of State

Chungking, August 31, 1945—1 p.m. 
 [Received 2:59 p.m.]

1485. Representative of “Korean Provisional Government” called at Embassy yesterday (Embassy’s 1356, August 14) and left memorandum, substance of which he requested be communicated to Department.

(Begin summary of memorandum) 1. Having failed to overthrow Korean Provisional Government, Korean Communists and their allies in Chungking withdrew from Government to demonstrate their party loyalty and to coordinate actions inside and outside Korea.

2. Koreans from Russia and Korean Communists from Yenan are entering Korea in large numbers. Before leaving Yenan for Manchuria on way to Korea, Kom Bakyun, President of Korean College in Yenan, broadcast that they aimed to set up government in Korea according to Communist ideals.

3. In view of foregoing, Korean Democrats, who believe in Anglo-American constitutionalism and who have been fighting for Korean freedom for past 40 years, are losing hope and their chances in Korea are decreasing.

4. Korean revolutionary leaders hope to assist and cooperate with American occupation forces in Korea and wish to mobilize public opinion in favor of Americans in order to keep law and order. These men are more respected by and better known to Koreans than Communist leaders. They hope United States will permit leading members of Korean Provisional Government to enter Korea as assistants to or interpreters for occupation forces or in any other manner suitable to United States. They believe that question of whether Korea develops into a democratic or communistic state depends on what United States does now. Failure to make decision will work in favor of Communists.

5. Korean leaders hope United States will send American missionaries at once to northern Korea which is center of American missionary work and also is area where such activity is in danger of being eliminated. Many Provisional Government members are Christians.

6. If United States could assist Korean leaders and send them to Korea, they would do nothing contrary to wishes of United States occupation forces or State Department.

7. Korean Provisional Government is well aware of State Department’s policy of treating all Korean groups alike, but invites attention to what Korean Communists are now doing with outside assistance. (Summary ends here.)

Hurley