895.01/9–2545: Telegram

The Chargé in China (Robertson) to the Secretary of State

Chungking, September 25, 1945—5 p.m. 
 [Received September 25—8:35 a.m.]

1657. Dr. K. C. Wu[주76] called at Embassy today and stated that Generalissimo[주77] would appreciate being informed concerning American policy in regard to Korea in light of present conditions. Dr. Wu said it had been reported that Soviets are organizing or sponsoring Communistic governmental groups in Soviet-occupied areas of Korea.

In view of this fact, Generalissimo considers it would be advisable that members of Korean Provisional Government in Chungking be flown to Korea as possible appointees to administrative positions in the government. However, as neither China nor the United States recognizes the KPG (Korean Provisional Government) these persons should be sent as private individuals and not as representatives of the KPG (Korean Provisional Government). Dr. Wu remarked that if the United States should recognize the KPG (Korean Provisional Government), the Chinese Government would be glad to do likewise. Dr. Wu said that the Generalissimo had discussed Korean questions with Ambassador Hurley shortly before latter’s departure for Washington, and that the Ambassador was familiar with Generalissimo’s views on subject. Dr. Wu requests that this message be brought to Ambassador’s attention on arrival.

With reference to Department’s 1510, September 21, Army here says that if State Department recommends or sponsors sending of Koreans to Korea, Army will be glad to set up planes, if available, for the purpose. Army feels, however, that a mere statement of non-objection by State Department, such as contained in reference telegram, is not sufficient as this would throw responsibility for making a political decision on Army. Army believes that political decisions of this nature should be made by State Department.

Department’s instructions would be appreciated.

Sent to Department; repeated to Moscow.

Robertson

----- 각주 -----
[주76] Chinese Minister of Information.
[주77] Chiang Kai-shek.
