top secret

[Washington,] December 7, 1950.

Excerpt From Meeting Between the President and Prime Minister in the Cabinet Room of the White House, Thursday, December 7, 1950

(This information not incorporated in official account of meetings.)

The President said he had just talked with the Prime Minister and that they had discussed the atomic bomb and its use. The President reminded Mr. Attlee that the Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States had always been partners in this matter and that he would not consider the use of the bomb without consulting with the United Kingdom. The Prime Minister asked whether this agreement should be put in writing, and the President replied no that it would not be in writing, that if a man’s word wasn’t any good it wasn’t made any better by writing it down. The Prime Minister expressed his thanks.

Philip C. Jessup

This is single copy to be retained by Mr. Battle in the Secretary’s office. [주1]

[Annex]

Memorandum for the Record, by Mr. R. Gordon Arneson, Special Assistant to the Secretary of State [주2]

top secret

[Washington,] January 16, 1953.

Subject: Truman–Attlee Conversations of December 1950: Use of Atomic Weapons

1.

The position which Secretary Acheson discussed with the President, in anticipation of the British raising the question of the use of atomic weapons, is attached at Tab A. [주3]

2.

In the course of the Fifth Meeting of the Truman–Attlee conversations in the Cabinet Room of the White House, Thursday, December 7, 1950, the President spoke to the subject along the lines reflected in Tab B. [주4]

[1463면] 3.

As the Sixth Meeting began on December 8, 1950, [주5] Secretary Acheson called for Mr. Arneson to join him at the White House to advise him as to what should be said in the Joint Communiqué concerning atomic weapons.

4.

Shortly after 12 o’clock noon the President withdrew briefly from the meeting and went to his office to discuss with Secretary Acheson, Secretary Lovett, Secretary Snyder, Mr. Harriman, and Mr. Arneson the language to be incorporated in the Joint Communiqué. During the discussion, Secretary Lovett recalled that the Quebec Agreement [주6] had provided that the United States had to obtain United Kingdom consent before using the atomic weapon. Members of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy, particularly Senator Vandenberg and Senator Hickenlooper, had been very disturbed at this provision and had urged most strongly that steps be taken to abrogate it. Negotiations were undertaken at the end of 1947 [주7] (Mr. Lovett was then Under Secretary of State) to supplant the Quebec Agreement with other arrangements. A salient objective of these negotiations was to terminate the provision concerning United Kingdom consent. The resultant Modus Vivendi of January 7, 1948, [주8] provided, among other things, that the commitment concerning use of atomic weapons was to have no further force or effect. As the discussion proceeded, Mr. Arneson drafted the language which was subsequently incorporated in the final Joint Communiqué of December 8, 1950. The President approved the suggested language and asked Secretary Acheson to secure British acceptance thereof.

5.

Secretary Acheson discussed the matter with Sir Oliver Franks and, with British concurrence, these two sentences were inserted as the penultimate paragraph of the Communiqué. (Tab C). [주9] The United States Minutes of the Sixth Meeting state:

“The President then said there were a couple more sentences on which he and the Prime Minister had agreed and which were to be included in the communiqué. He then read the sentences dealing with the atomic bomb as they appear in the final communiqué. The President said we should find the proper place to insert them.”

6.

In the course of subsequent comparison of minutes of the meetings, Mr. Wayne Jackson learned that the British Minutes of the Fifth Meeting included a passage along the lines of the first statement which [1464면] the President made on the subject. (Tab A). [주10] The point was made at that time that this statement should be deleted since the President had corrected it and his correction constituted a change in the record of the conference itself. It was pointed out that the United States position on this matter was as reflected in the text of the Joint Communiqué. (For Ambassador Jessup’s note on this point, see Tab D.) [주11]

7.

In subsequent conversations with Mr. F. W. Marten of the British Embassy, Mr. Arneson had occasion to make the same point, namely that the official United States position as agreed by the President and as accepted by Prime Minister Attlee, was set forth in the penultimate paragraph of the Joint Communiqué—no more and no less.

[Subannex]

Position Paper Prepared for the Truman–Attlee Talks

Use of Atomic Bomb

present position

The President has made clear (a) that by law only he can authorize its use, and (b) that he has not authorized its use.

The sensational action by the press in dealing with the questions and answers at the President’s press conference [주12] has given the impression that the President is actively considering use of the bomb in China.

british position

That the bomb should not be used without consultation—and probably without agreement—with them and perhaps others. Probably, also, they are strongly opposed to its use in China.

[1465면]

other factors

These are known to the President.

recommendations for attlee discussions

(a)

That no commitment be made restricting the action of the U.S.

(b)

That our desire not to use the bomb be stressed.

(c)

That our realization of the dire consequences for all of its use be stressed and our great sense of responsibility. We are, indeed, trustees for the future of the world in this respect.

(d)

That our desire and expectation to move in step with the British be stressed. (Their role in this matter requires this.)

(e)

That, if necessary after the preliminary discussions, further consideration of our position be undertaken.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Note in the source text.
[주2] Mr. Arneson, previously Special Assistant to the Under Secretary of State, had assumed the position of Mr. Acheson’s Special Assistant for atomic energy matters, effective November 13, 1950. He held the same post on January 16, 1953.
[주3] See the subannex to this document, below.
[주4] See the memorandum by Mr. Jessup, above.
[주5] Post, p. 1468.
[주6] Text in Foreign Relations, The Conferences at Washington and Quebec, 1943, p. 1117.
[주7] See Foreign Relations, 1947, vol. i, pp. 781 ff.
[주8] See ibid., 1948, vol. i, Part 2, pp. 677 ff.
[주9] The communiqué is printed as an annex to the Minutes of the 6th Meeting, December 8, p. 1476.
[주10] Presumably, the reference should be to Tab B, i.e., Mr. Jessup’s memorandum of December 7, p. 1462, which reflected President Truman’s “first statement” on the subject.
[주11] Mr. Jessup’s memorandum for the record, dated January 9, 1951, read as follows: “In discussions with the British about the minutes of the Truman–Attlee talks, Mr. Wayne Jackson was informed that in the minutes of the fifth meeting Which they have in their own files they have included the first statement made by the President on the subject of the atomic bomb. We argued that the statement should be deleted since the President had corrected it and that his correction constituted a change in the record of the conference itself. They did not accept this argument so far as their file copies were concerned, but in the copy of their minutes which they are exchanging with us this paragraph is deleted.”
[주12] See the editorial note concerning President Truman’s news conference of November 30, p. 1261.
