top secret

Washington, September 7, 1950.

Subject: U.S. Courses of Action With Respect to Korea.

With reference to your memorandum of 1 September 1950, the Joint Chiefs of Staff have considered NSC 81 and are of the opinion that the approach to the basic problem as outlined in this paper is unrealistic since that approach envisages the stabilization of a front on the 38th parallel.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff, after consultation by two of its members with General MacArthur, agree with his concept that the initial objective to be attained is the destruction of North Korean forces. We believe, after the strength of the North Korean forces has been broken, which it is anticipated will occur south of 38th degrees North, that subsequently operations must take place both north and south of the 38th parallel. Such operations on the ground should be conducted by South Korean forces since it is assumed that the actions will probably be of a guerrilla character. General MacArthur has plans for increasing the strength of the South Korean forces so that they should be adequate at the time to cope with this situation.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff and General MacArthur agree that the occupation of Korea by U.N. forces subsequent to the cessation of actual hostilities should be limited to the principal cities south of the 38th parallel and that any occupation by U.N. forces should be terminated as early as possible. In this connection it is considered that all United States forces should be removed from Korea as early as practicable. Such action will be of great importance to our position with respect to all of Asia.

[708면]

It is our understanding that General MacArthur, in consultation with Syngman Rhee, has agreed that the government of the Republic of Korea, the only government recognized by the United Nations, should be re-established in Seoul as early as practicable. General MacArthur states that he has reached an understanding with Mr. Rhee that he, Mr. Rhee, upon re-entry into Seoul will immediately grant a general amnesty to all except war criminals and that he will call for a general election to fill the 100 vacant seats in the Korean Parliament, and thereafter set up a single government for all Korea.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff suggest that NSC 81 be redrafted to reflect the foregoing principles and that the redraft, in lieu of NSC 81, be considered by the National Security Council.

For the Joint Chiefs of Staff:

Omar N. Bradley

----- 각주 -----
[주1] This memorandum was circulated to the NSC on September 8 by the Executive Secretary (Lay).
