confidential

Pusan, September 2, 1950.

[Unnumbered]

Subject: Transmittal of Memorandum of Conversation of the Ambassador, President Rhee, and Dr. Noble

The Embassy transmits a memorandum of conversation of the Ambassador, President Rhee, and Dr. Noble, which took place September 1, 1950.

Although the Ambassador had conveyed substantially the same ideas to the President and other officials repeatedly since the Government had been established at Taejon, the immediate purpose of this conversation was to impress the President with reasonable handling of a conflict with the National Assembly which had just come to a head by adoption, by overwhelming vote, by the National Assembly of a Resolution calling upon the President to discharge the Prime Minister—Defense Minister, Captain Shin Sung Mo, and the Home Minister, Dr. Chough Pyung Ok. The Ambassador had also sent Mr. Noble to discuss this question with the Chairman of the National Assembly, Shin Ik Hi, and the senior Vice-Chairman, Chang Taik San. Mr. Noble had presented views similar to those described in the conversation and the two National Assembly officers had agreed that for the time being they would use their influence to stop any public legislature-executive conflict.

[695면]

Following the conversation described above, the President decided to go, and did go, before the National Assembly and addressed them for about an hour in a friendly and conciliatory manner, while at the same time explaining why he found it impossible to accede to their request to discharge the two ministers. He also announced the appointment of four members of the National Assembly as part of the Korean Delegation to the Fifth General Assembly of the UN, which was taken by the Assemblymen as a conciliatory gesture. Unfortunately, in the question and answer period following his speech the President lost his temper and made some harsh statements about the Assembly which partially undid the good effect of his previous speech. Under the leadership of Shin Ik Hi and Chang Taik San, however, the Assembly proceeded to pass the budget and suppress the controversy for the present.

[Enclosure]

Memorandum of Conversation, by the Ambassador in Korea (Muccio)

confidential

Pusan, September 1, 1950.

Participants: Ambassador

President Rhee

Dr. Noble

Location: President Rhee’s Office

I told President Rhee how disappointed I was upon arrival at Pusan to find men—both in and outside the Government—who pride themselves in being leaders, “knifing” men in responsible positions. I considered particularly deplorable attempts to inject selfish political bickerings into the army and police at a time when the very life of the state was at stake.

I reminded Rhee that this jarred me officially and personally, as twice in the past two years I had had the opportunity of throwing my weight against continuance of U.S. aid to Korea. Since the blow of June 25, there were at least two times before military aid arrived that the U.S. could have run out plausibly and left the peninsula to its fate. It would have been easy to have done that at Suwon and, a few days later, at Taejon. I am delighted that we hung on at that time. I am proud that President Truman made his bold, forthright decision to send air and sea support and two days later ground support to stop the aggression. At the same time, I feel a tremendous responsibility to the American people for the lives and effort being expended and cannot but expect all Koreans to work together and do their best expressing confidence they could and would thereby be justifying the support received.

[696면]

I then mentioned that the UN Commission on Korea in its first, two reports had done well by Korea and by what was being done here. I understood that the third report had just been signed [주1] and that it was even more favorable to Korea. I continued that I was thrilled that 53 member states have endorsed what Korea, supported by the United States, had done. Many of these states were not only giving their moral support, but were coming now with material and military. The reports of the United Nations Commission on Korea had played a vital role in mobilizing world opinion on the side of Korea. I know that the delegates also hope that the Korean politicos will not nullify the confidence they have expressed in Korea.

Naturally, people throughout the world who are sending their loved-ones to fight here are going to be eager to know why they are here and what the Koreans are doing. The eyes of the people of the world, friendly and unfriendly, are on Korea. He, all the members of his cabinet, the National Assembly, and civic leaders—both in and outside of the Government—must be aware that they are living in a goldfish bowl. Some may feel that they can continue their sinister manipulating and get away with it. They had better be aware that even though they think they can get away with it, they cannot.

This general outline was used in conversations that I and members of my Staff have had with Koreans, both in and out of the Government.

J. J. M[uccio]

----- 각주 -----
[주1] The third report of UNCOK, covering the period from December 15, 1949 to September 4, 1950, was forwarded to the Secretary General of the United Nations on the latter date; see U.N. document A/1350.
