Washington, July 17, 1950.

My Dear Mr. Secretary of State: I have the honour to enclose text of a message for you from the Prime Minister of India. Also enclosed is the text of Marshal Stalin’s message to the Prime Minister and his reply thereto.

With [etc.]

Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit

[408면]

[Enclosure 1]

Text of Message From Prime Minister of India to Hon’ble Dean Acheson, Secretary of State, United States of America

I consider Marshal Stalin’s reply [주1] most encouraging. I have already explained why, in my opinion, the apprehension that the entry of China into the Security Council and return of Soviets may possibly lead to obstruction of proceedings should not be allowed to stand in the way of restoring to the Council its full representative character. Insistence on prior fulfilment by Moscow or Peiping of conditions such as return of North Korean forces to 38th parallel may be pleaded by both as evidence of lack of desire of the Western Powers for a peaceful settlement. On the other hand, if Soviets and China prove unreasonable after entry into the Council, world opinion will hold them responsible for consequences; My honest belief is that Moscow is seeking a way out of the present entanglement without loss of prestige and that there is a real chance of solving the Korean problem peacefully by enabling the Peiping Government to enter and Soviet Union to resume its place in the Security Council without insistence on conditions. This may be an act of faith but the gravity of alternatives seems to justify it. In view of urgency of the matter I shall be grateful for earliest possible answer.

With [etc.]

Jawaharlal Nehru

[Enclosure 2]

Text of Message From Marshal Stalin to Prime Minister of India [주2]

I welcome your peace initiative. I fully share your point of view as to the expediency of a peaceful settlement of the Korean question through the Security Council, the participation of the representatives of the Five Great Powers including the People’s Government of China being indispensible. I believe that to reach an early settlement of the Korean question it would be expedient in the Security Council to hear representatives of the Korean people.

With respects,

J. Stalin

Prime Minister of Soviet Union

[409면]

[Enclosure 3]

Text of Message From Prime Minister of India to Marshal Stalin [주3]

I am most grateful for Your Excellency’s prompt and encouraging response. I am communicating immediately with the other governments concerned and hope to be able to approach Your Excellency again soon.

With respects,

Jawaharlal Nehru

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Enclosure 2, below.
[주2] This message was received by the Government of India on July 16 (see telegram 97, July 16, from New Delhi, p. 401) in response to Mr. Nehru’s communication of July 13 (see footnote 2 to telegram 124, July 14, from Moscow, p. 379).
[주3] Communicated to the Soviet Government on July 16, in response to Generalissimo Stalin’s message printed in Enclosure 2, above.
