top secret

[Washington,] August 3, 1951.

Subject: Course of Action to be followed if Armistice Negotiations are Successful

There is general agreement that the United States and United Nations should seize the initiative in the post-armistice phase. We are publicly committed to enter political discussions leading to the peaceful settlement of the Korean problem after the conclusion of an armistice. There seems to be no good reason to drag our feet and excellent reason for making a proposal looking toward the prompt convocation of a conference for this purpose. Moreover, if we do not make a proposal we can be certain that the enemy will, in which case we will be forced into the defensive position of rejecting or seeking to modify a proposal which can be expected to be objectionable.

The main questions which must be answered seem to be what would we wish to derive from such a conference, when and where do we propose it be held, and who should participate.

Purpose of Political Conference

In a political conference we should seek agreement:

a)

on the establishment, under UN supervision, of a unified, independent and democratic government of Korea, assured, insofar as possible, against Communist subversion or aggression and with a program for the rehabilitation of all of Korea under UNKRA; (No UNKRA funds would be spent in North Korea until a full political settlement had been reached and entered into force.)

b)

following agreement on the steps leading to unification, on the plan for the phased withdrawal of all foreign forces under conditions which would assure internal security throughout Korea and provide reasonable assurance against external aggression.

[771면]

If an agreement embodying these points Cannot be reached, we should be prepared to continue under the armistice without a political settlement at this time. This would not prevent subsequent ad hoc agreements, including perhaps provision for mutual reduction in forces. The objective of unifying Korea would be kept alive by the UN, which would maintain machinery and continue efforts to achieve it.

Procedure Leading to Discussion

After the armistice is signed, the General Assembly would adopt a resolution noting the armistice with approval and appointing a UN Delegation (the US and possibly Australia and Thailand) to represent the UN in efforts to achieve a permanent settlement of the Korean problem. This Delegation would, by any appropriate means, make contact with the North Koreans and Chinese Communists and set up a conference in which the North Koreans, the Chinese Communists, the ROK, and the UN Delegation would participate.

It is suggested that the conference be held at Kaesong or in the demilitarized zone as soon as possible after it appears that the armistice terms are being faithfully carried out.

UN Approval of Political Settlement

Any agreement reached in discussions among the interested parties would be ad referendum and would be referred to the General Assembly for approval.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] A notation on the source text indicated that this document was seen by Mr. Acheson.
