top secret

Washington, March 1, 1951.

Dear Mr. Secretary: After careful consideration of the State Department’s draft memorandum of 23 February for the President on the 38th parallel, the Department of Defense believes that, from the military point of view, it should not be submitted to the President. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, in their attached memorandum of 27 February 1951, have presented several military grounds for not favoring this approach at this time. I concur with them that there is a risk in disclosure to the enemy of a United States military decision, that freedom of action and freedom of maneuver must be maintained for U.N. ground forces, and that it is now premature, from a military point of view, to determine the action to be taken by U.N. forces with respect to the 38th parallel.

The Department of Defense agrees with the Department of State that the United States should abide by the United Nations decisions with respect to Korea. Since the U.S. position constitutes one of the major elements in U.N. decisions, the Department of Defense strongly believes that it is now urgently necessary to formulate U.S. political objectives in Korea and China, as the Joint Chiefs of Staff have suggested in paragraph 11 of their memorandum. On the basis of these objectives, the Department of Defense will recommend proper military courses of action. Therefore, it appears to me that the political and the military factors should be worked out in the forum of the National Security Council and presented to the President. From the military standpoint, such a policy should include consideration of the effective means for the psychological handling of the problem of the 38th parallel.

I am advised that U.S. policy with respect to Korea and China is [203면] now receiving consideration in the NSC Senior Staff. [주1] Recommendations on this policy should be forthcoming as soon as possible. The State Department’s draft memorandum for the President and the views of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have both presented a number of the political and military aspects of the Korean problem, which should be useful as a basis for developing national policy for the President’s approval.

In the meantime, it might be advisable, if you agree, to inform the President, before his departure to Key West, that the Departments of State and Defense have carefully studied the problem of the 38th parallel from both the political and military points of view; that the National Security Council is urgently preparing recommendations for his approval on an integrated political and military position with respect to Korea and China; and that, from the military point of view, it appears to be premature for even a preliminary determination to be made at this time as to the action to be taken by the U.N. forces with respect to the 38th parallel. In this connection, I would particularly suggest informing the President that the Joint Chiefs of Staff have reported that—“The Commander in Chief, Far East, has indicated his intention to continue his advance to develop the enemy’s main line of resistance; and, if no major enemy strength is disposed south of the 38th parallel, to make a report to this effect to the Joint Chiefs of Staff requesting instructions before proceeding further.”

If it is your decision to forward the draft memorandum to the President, I would appreciate it if you would accompany it with the views of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. [주2]

Faithfully yours,

G. C. Marshall

[Enclosure]

Memorandum by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the Secretary of Defense (Marshall)

top secret

Washington, February 27, 1951.

Subject: Action to be Taken by United Nations Forces with Respect to the 38th Parallel.

1.

In the opinion of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the draft memorandum prepared by the Department of State for the President on the subject of the 38th parallel is, from the military point of view, an unsound [204면] approach to the problem of determining future military courses of action for United Nations forces in Korea inasmuch as this approach:

a.

Would, based solely upon interim political factors, predetermine future military courses of action without consideration or determination of concurrent political courses of action in the premises;

b.

Proposes future military courses of action without a review having first been made of present political objectives and of the political courses of action which the United States should adopt as a result of that review; and

c.

Would, in all probability, result in disclosure to the enemy of a United States military decision.

2.

It should be obvious that the current situation in Korea is such as to require an immediate review of United States political objectives for that area. Such a review should result in either reaffirmation or modification of these objectives. Thereafter it should be practicable to develop the short-range political courses of action to be adopted in furtherance of these political objectives. Once these political courses of action have been developed, the Joint Chiefs of Staff can analyze military capabilities and can recommend military courses of action to be taken in conjunction with and in furtherance of those political courses of action.

3.

Two possible military problems are discussed in the draft memorandum prepared by the Department of State:

a.

Unification of Korea by military means; and

b.

Restoration of the status quo ante 25 June 1950.

In addition, the paper develops at least by implication, a third possible military problem; namely, halting the advance of the United Nations ground forces south of the general vicinity of the 38th parallel. The paper fails to indicate a political solution to any of the above military problems. In this connection, it must be recognized that to attempt to solve the political problem of Korea by military measures alone is unsound.

4.

With respect to unification of Korea by military means, the statement appears in paragraph 2 of the draft memorandum for the President that “It is the political objective of the United Nations and of the United States to bring about the establishment of a unified, independent, and democratic Korea.” However, in paragraph 4 thereof it is stated that “Our principal allies and the great majority of governments having troops in Korea would not support the unification of Korea as a war aim, although they continue to support it as a political objective.” Thereafter in the subject paper it is indicated that the risks involved in attaining our objective are grave. The Joint Chiefs [205면] of Staff agree that there would be grave military risks in attempting the attainment of this political objective by military means alone.

5.

As long as the present political objective of the United Nations and of the United States for Korea is retained, the military forces of the United Nations and of the United States should not be forbidden, for political reasons, to advance north of the 38th parallel since such a prohibition is wholly inconsistent with that objective.

6.

With respect to restoration of the status quo ante 25 June 1950, paragraph 6 of the draft memorandum indicates that such a restoration is unacceptable politically because of the concessions which the Moscow-Peiping axis would attempt to extort. The 38th parallel is of no military significance whatsoever insofar as military operations are concerned. Restoration of the above status quo, however, would permit the Communists to build up north of the 38th parallel, either overtly, or covertly, such a concentration of military forces as to jeopardize the safety of present or contemplated United States and United Nations forces in South Korea, Accordingly, in addition to the fact that restoration of the status quo ante 25 June 1950 may be considered unacceptable from the political point of view, it is wholly unacceptable militarily in view of the military risk involved.

7.

A United Nations prohibition against a general advance north of the general vicinity of the 38th parallel would not impose a comparable restriction on the Communist forces. In this connection, the Joint Chiefs of Staff would point out that, based on their military experience, it would be impracticable to undertake aggressive defensive operations which would keep a numerically superior enemy off balance and to interrupt or prevent enemy offensives against United Nations forces unless the 38th parallel as such is disregarded as a military feature by the ground as well as the air and naval elements of the United Nations command. In any event, such a prohibition would definitely limit and restrict the freedom of action and the freedom of maneuver which the United Nations ground forces must have if for no other reason than for their own security.

8.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff are fully in accord with the view of the Department of State that the United States should strive for a settlement of the Korean question by political action rather than by placing dependence primarily on military action. If, however, the Korean question cannot be settled by political action, then the political measures adopted should advance rather than jeopardize the security of the United Nations military forces in Korea.

9.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff consider it premature for even a preliminary determination to be made at this time as to the action to be [206면] taken by the United Nations forces with respect to the 38th parallel. The Commander in Chief, Far East, has indicated his intention to continue his advance to develop the enemy’s main line of resistance; and, if no major enemy strength is disposed south of the 38th parallel, to make a report to this effect to the Joint Chiefs of Staff requesting instructions before proceeding further. Until this determination has been made, the Joint Chiefs of Staff are of the opinion that a decision to cross the 38th parallel or one to halt south of that line would be unsound, from the military point of view.

10.

Any decision not to cross the 38th parallel, which is taken on the political level in consultation with other United Nations members, would inevitably result in disclosure to the enemy of this decision. Such a disclosure would permit the enemy to select his course of action based upon the known intentions of the United Nations ground forces and thus could jeopardize the military position of the United Nations in Korea.

11.

In view of all of the above considerations, the Joint Chiefs of Staff strongly recommend that the present military courses of action in Korea be continued at least until:

a.

The Department of State, after due consideration of public opinion both national and international, has formulated and transmitted to the Department of Defense the political courses of action the Department of State recommends for furthering the United States political objectives in Korea and China;

b.

Based upon these political courses of action, the Department of Defense has formulated, in the light of the global situation and United States military commitments, future military courses of action with respect to Korea; and

c.

These political and military courses of action have been integrated into a governmental decision as to our future politico-military policy toward Korea.

12.

Until this governmental decision is reached there should be no change in that part of the directive to General MacArthur which now permits him so to dispose his forces either north or south of the 38th parallel as best to provide for their security.

13.

In light of all the foregoing, the Joint Chiefs of Staff strongly recommend that the Draft Memorandum on the subject of the 38th parallel, prepared by the Department of State, not be submitted to the President; but instead that the Department of State be urged to initiate action in accordance with paragraph 11 above.

For the Joint Chiefs of Staff: 


Omar N. Bradley

Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff

[207면]

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Reference is to the work which culminated in NSC 48/5, approved by President Truman on May 17, dealing with U.S. policy toward Asia. An extract from NSC 48/5 is printed on p. 439, but for the complete text of this paper as well as related documentation, see vol. vi, Part 1, pp. 33 ff.
[주2] Mr. Acheson did not forward the State Department draft memorandum of February 23 to President Truman.
