secret

[Washington,] January 29, 1951.

Yesterday Mr. Rusk and I received Messrs. Steel and Graves of the British Embassy who informed us that the British Government were prepared to vote for the pending U.S. Resolution on Chinese aggression but that they wanted from us an assurance that we would not vote against or lobby against and thus defeat a resolution embodying Mr. Pearson’s proposals or one substantially like it. The reference to Mr. Pearson’s proposals was to his six-point program in his speech in the Political Committee last Friday or Saturday. [주1]

[145면]

I inquired whether the British visualized a resolution after the adoption of the U.S. Resolution. Mr. Steel said that he understood this was the case although the telegram was not completely definite on the subject. Mr. Rusk and I agreed to consider this matter and see Messrs. Steel and Graves later in the day.

After their departure Mr. Rusk and I worked out the following statement to give them in reply which I cleared by telephone with the Secretary:

“We are ready to discuss with Canada and the UK the matter of making Mr. Pearson’s proposals more precise and to put them in such a form as to be agreeable to the three of us. We are ready, as always, to discuss a cease-fire, in accordance with our proposals to the Cease-Fire Committee, with Peiping participation; subsequent to a cease-fire, to discuss a Korean settlement with Peiping participation and to discuss other Far Eastern questions with Peiping participation. We could not agree to the seven-power conference, as named by Mr. Pearson, to attempt to dispose of Far Eastern questions. Since a number of governments are interested in the various items which might arise for discussion, our present view is that the most practical procedure would be for Peiping to have a representative return to Lake Success in order that convenient groupings of interested governments could be arranged as the various items required. Further, in the event of disagreement as to the parties to participate, the matter could be referred to the Political Committee for decision. Foregoing on assumption that U.S. resolution will be adopted prior to above efforts.”

At 5 p.m. yesterday, Mr. Rusk, and I saw Steel and Graves again and we gave them this oral message. Mr. Steel said that he would telegraph this at once to London. He indicated his belief that this would be regarded as a satisfactory response although not an acceptance of the British proposal which he had presented to us earlier in the day.

This morning I had this oral message read over the telephone to USUN and taken down there for their information.

John D. Hickerson

----- 각주 -----
[주1] Mr. Pearson’s speech was made on Friday, January 26; see footnote 3, p. 128.
