top secret 
 NSC 118/2

Washington, December 20, 1951.

United States Objectives and Courses of Action in Korea

References: A. NSC Action No. 595 [주2]

B. NSC 118/1 and Annex to NSC 118/1 [주3]

C. Memos for NSC from Executive Secretary, same subject, dated December 18 [주4] and December 19, 1951 [주5]

D. Memo for all holders of NSC 118/1 from Executive Secretary, dated December 12, 1951 [주6]

E. NIE–55 [주7] and SE–20 [주8]

F. NSC Action No. 562 [주9]

G. Memo for NSC from Acting Executive Secretary, subject, “United States Courses of Action in Korea,” dated September 5, 1951

H. Progress Report, dated September 25, 1951 by the Secretaries of State and Defense on NSC 48/5

[1383면]

At the 110th meeting, with the President presiding, the National Security Council, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Director of Defense Mobilization adopted NSC 118/1, subject to the revisions recommended by the Senior NSC Staff in the reference memorandum of December 19; to revision of subparagraph l–a–(3) and the second sentence of subparagraph 2–a–(5); and to reference of the alternative versions of subparagraph 2–b–(6) to the Senior NSC Staff for review in the light of an analysis of the traffic in and out of Communist China and of the probable effectiveness of an embargo or blockade (NSC Action No. 595). The report, as amended, is enclosed. Also enclosed is the NSC Staff study contained in the Annex to NSC 118/1, revised in the light of the Council’s action.

In connection with its action on this report the Council noted:

a. The following statements by the Secretary of State:

Sub-paragraph 2–a–(5) should be understood to be a statement of policy and not to determine the language of the warning.

With respect to sub-paragraphs 2–b–(2) and–(3), it would be understood that the Commander-in-Chief of UN forces, before engaging upon any major ground operations or advances in North Korea, would first consult with Washington.

In connection with sub-paragraph 2–b–(4), if time permits the State Department would have opportunity of informing our key allies of our intention and of the reasons therefor in such a way, however, as to safeguard completely the security of the information and the surprise of the operation.

b. The statement by the Secretary of Defense that the Joint Secretaries wished to emphasize the importance of obtaining additional air support in Korea from other UN nations, particularly Canada, in view of the Communist air build-up.

c. The statement by the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, that if we do have to broaden the scope of the war, this may require more forces than are currently contemplated.

The report, as amended, was subsequently submitted to the President for consideration. The President has this date approved the statement of policy in NSC 118/1, as amended and enclosed herewith, and directs its implementation by all appropriate executive departments and agencies of the U.S. Government under the coordination of the Secretaries of State and Defense.

The enclosed statement of policy is not to be construed as changing in any manner the other policy provisions, objectives, and courses of action in NSC 48/5, including those pertaining to Communist China and Formosa which are set forth in paragraph 8 and subparagraph 11(c) of the latter. [주10]

James S. Lay, Jr.

[1384면]

[Enclosure]

top secret

Statement of Policy Proposed by the National Security Council on United States Objectives and Courses of Action in Korea

objectives

1. The United States should continue to seek in Korea the following objectives, as set forth in paragraphs 6 e and f of NSC 48/5 subject to amendment of paragraphs 6 e and f as indicated below:

a. As an ultimate objective, continue to seek by political, as distinguished from military means, a solution of the Korean problem which would provide for a united, independent and democratic Korea. As a current objective, seek, through appropriate UN machinery, a settlement of the Korean conflict acceptable to United States security interests which would, as a minimum and without jeopardizing the U.S. position with respect to the USSR, to Formosa, or to seating Communist China in the UN:

(1)

Terminate hostilities under appropriate armistice arrangements.

(2)

Establish the authority of the Republic of Korea over all Korea south of a northern boundary so located as to facilitate, to the maximum extent possible, both administration and military defense, and, in general, not south of the 38th parallel.

(3)

Provide for the withdrawal by stages of non-Korean armed forces from Korea as circumstances permit.

(4)

Permit the building of sufficient ROK military power to deter or repel a renewed aggression by North Korean forces alone.

b. Seek to avoid the extension of hostilities in Korea into a general war with the Soviet Union, or with Communist China.

c. Continue the military action until an armistice is agreed upon and continue economic and political sanctions against the aggressor until at least the minimum settlement is achieved.

d. In any event, continue to seek to develop strong barriers against communist subversion and military aggression in Korea, and to develop political and social conditions in Korea which would facilitate a united, independent and democratic Korea.

2. With respect to the situation in Korea, the United States should pursue the following courses of action, in lieu of those set forth in paragraph 9 of NSC 48/5:

a. In the event that an armistice is achieved:

(1) Endeavor in the UN to obtain agreement to the establishment of a UN Commission to undertake negotiations looking toward an [1385면] eventual political settlement which would establish a united, independent and democratic Korea.

(2) Maintain all existing political and economic sanctions against Communist China and exert vigorous efforts to persuade our allies to do likewise, at least until a minimum settlement of the Korean conflict is achieved.

(3) Exert vigorous efforts to continue the contribution by UN members of forces to the UN Command in Korea so long as UN forces are required in Korea.

(4) Intensify, to the maximum practicable extent the organization, training, and equipping of the armed forces of the ROK, so that they may assume increasing responsibility for the defense and security of the ROK.

(5) Seek agreement among the nations participating in the hostilities in Korea to the issuance of a joint declaration enunciating the responsibility of the Chinese Communist and North Korean regimes for the strict observance of the armistice terms and warning that military action without geographic limitation will be taken to meet a renewal of the aggression. If agreement cannot be reached, the United States should make clear to the USSR and Communist China that future military aggression in Korea will result in a military reaction that would not necessarily be limited in geographic scope. Efforts should be made to the end that other governments, particularly the UK and France, take similar action.

(6) Endeavor to obtain in the Security Council or General Assembly a resolution calling upon all parties to the armistice agreement faithfully to observe its terms.

b. In the event that armistice negotiations clearly fail:

(1) Determine and take whatever measures in addition to the current mobilization effort would be required to meet the greater risk of general war which would then exist.

(2) Increase the scale of military operations in the Korean area consistent with the capabilities of the forces available to the Commander in Chief of the UN forces whenever, in his judgment, such operations will contribute materially to the destruction of enemy forces and will not result in disproportionate losses to UN forces under his command.

(3) Remove any restrictions against advances or attacks in Korea, including restrictions against air attacks on the Yalu River dams and the power installations on the Korean bank of the Yalu River but excepting attacks against areas within approximately 12 miles of the borders of the USSR.

(4) Remove restrictions against the employment (unilaterally and [1386면] on short notice, if the situation so requires) of United States air forces to attack Chinese Communist air bases whenever the scale of enemy air activity threatens seriously to jeopardize the security of the United States forces in the Korean area, such employment, however, to be specifically authorized by the President. (See paragraph 2 d (1) for action in case of enemy mass air attack).

(5) Seek both within and without UN the imposition on Communist China of additional political and economic pressures such as agreement by the maximum number of countries to the diplomatic isolation of Communist China.

[주*] [(6) Seek agreement from as many nations as possible to impose and to participate in the joint enforcement of a complete embargo on all their trade with Communist China, including a prohibition on the ships of these countries calling at Chinese Communist ports, at the same time indicating to these nations that failure to achieve increasingly effective multilateral economic pressure upon Communist China’s aggressive military potential through these means may require employment of UN naval forces for search and seizure at sea, closure of ports or imposition of a naval blockade of the China mainland coastline.]

[주*] [(6) Press the major maritime powers participating in the Korean campaign to impose, immediately upon the failure of armistice negotiations, a naval blockade on Communist China. Failing acceptance of this course, seek agreement from as many nations as possible to impose and to participate in the joint enforcement of a complete embargo on all shipments to Communist China, including a prohibition on the ships of these countries calling at Chinese Communist ports.]

(7) Exert vigorous efforts to obtain increased military forces from those countries already participating as well as to obtain contributions from UN countries which have not yet contributed military forces.

(8) Support a vigorous campaign of covert operations designed to:

(a) Aid to the maximum practicable extent anti-communist guerrilla forces in Communist China and Korea; and

(b) Interfere with and disrupt enemy lines of communications.

c. In the event a decision is reached that the Communists are deliberately delaying armistice negotiations indefinitely and are increasing their offensive capabilities, increase pressures on the aggressor by stages and execute those courses of action specified in paragraph 2 b [1387면] above, including political and economic pressures, through UN and diplomatic channels, to the extent feasible.

d. Whether or not an armistice in Korea is achieved:

(1) Continue in effect standing instructions to the Commander in Chief of UN forces in case the communists launch massive air attacks against UN forces in the Korean area.

(2) Develop and equip dependable ROK military units, as rapidly as possible and in sufficient strength, with a view to their assuming eventually responsibility for the defense of Korea.

(3) Expedite the organization, training, and equipping of Japanese defense forces.

(4) Continue a program of covert operations designed to assist to the maximum practicable extent the achievement of U.S. objectives vis-à-vis Communist China and Korea.

(5) If the USSR commits units of Soviet “volunteers” sufficient to jeopardize the safety of UN forces in Korea, give immediate consideration to withdrawing UN forces from Korea and placing the United States in the best possible position of readiness for general war.

(6) Working in and through the organs of the UN where feasible, continue to strengthen the government and democratic institutions of the Republic of Korea, and continue to contribute to the United Nations effort for economic recovery and rehabilitation in the Republic of Korea and in areas of Korea liberated from Communist control.

[Annex]

top secret

December 20, 1951.

NSC Staff Study [주†] on United States Objectives and Courses of Action in Korea

the problem

1. The essential question to be determined is whether, in case the armistice negotiations fail to continue the policy of NSC 48/5, namely, to seek as an ultimate objective a unified and independent Korea by political means and as a limited objective a minimum settlement of the military conflict, or whether to seek a definitive military and political settlement to the Korean problem.

[1388면]

analysis

Nature of the Problem

2. The current efforts to achieve an armistice and a settlement, as defined below, could fail because of (a) Communist refusal to agree to minimum U.S. terms for a settlement; (b) Communist protraction or termination of negotiations; (c) the unwillingness of the American people to accept a stalemate; and (d) the potentially serious consequences of expanding hostilities resulting, for example, from the growing Communist air build-up in North Korea and Manchuria.

3. On the one hand there may develop certain pressures for the adoption of United States courses of action in conflict with the objectives in Korea set forth in NSC 48/5. From the U.S. military point of view, the immobilization of U.S. ground, air and naval forces in inconclusive operations in Korea during long and protracted negotiations over an indefinite period of time with the attendant attrition of manpower and materiel may become unacceptable. The increasing military power of Communist China threatens U.S. basic security interests in the Far East. It must be expected that, in the event armistice negotiations fail, U.S. public opinion may demand the adoption of military measures adequate to achieve a political and military decision of the Korean struggle.

4. On the other hand, the pressures on the United States to reach an early resolution of the Korean conflict through a cease-fire and an armistice are also becoming stronger. The desire to end casualties is strong. The deployment of U.S. military resources to Korea reduces the power that the United States might otherwise be able to exert in Western Europe and the Near East. Our allies, including the Commonwealth, are constantly pressing for an armistice, are reluctant to apply additional measures against Communist China, and cannot or are unwilling to contribute any more forces to Korea.

Considerations Bearing on the Choice of Objectives

5. The developing situation in Korea has reached a point where the United States must decide on the objectives and general direction which it now desires to pursue in Korea. The United States can choose among three broad objectives: (a) abandonment of the U.S. and UN commitment in Korea and complete withdrawal of UN forces; (b) achievement by a military decision of the unification of Korea and the withdrawal of Communist military forces from Korea; and (c) achievement of an acceptable settlement of the Korean conflict by military and other means and pursuance of unification only by political means.

[1389면]

Abandonment of Our Commitment in Korea:

6. Such a choice would irreparably damage the position of the United States in Asia and throughout the world, signify the surrender of the often-proclaimed UN objectives for Korea, and shatter the prestige of the UN. The result would be a major victory for Communism which would adversely affect the world-wide position of the United States. The security interests of the United States would be seriously jeopardized by this decision. It is unacceptable as a voluntary choice. Therefore, our objective can either be the unification of Korea through a military decision or through achievement of an acceptable settlement of the Korean conflict. The following are among the factors to be considered in determining that choice.

Unification of Korea by a Military Decision:

7. Achievement of this objective implies the defeat of enemy forces in Korea, the destruction or withdrawal from Korea of Chinese forces, the reduction of the will to fight of the Chinese Communist regime, and the establishment by force of a united Korea. The courses of action necessary to achieve these results would require the employment of significant additional UN forces and means primarily furnished by the United States. These additional resources would undoubtedly include substantial ground and air reinforcements, imposition of a naval blockade against Communist China and possibly the use of all available types of weapons. To pursue these courses of action to completion, during 1952, would require immediate decision so that necessary steps could be taken for the training, supply, and transportation to Korea of the added forces involved. After deployment of necessary forces and supplies, a decisive blow could probably be delivered within sixty days and thereafter UN forces could be materially reduced. Deferment of a decision to employ these courses of action for even a few months would delay the build-up to a date which would either require a winter campaign or defer decisive operations until the spring of 1953. The adoption of these courses of action would result in expanding the area of air and naval hostilities into Manchuria and parts of China, in which case the Korean action would develop into a de facto war against Communist China and might increase the possibility of general war. On the other hand, initial operations and the threat implied by increased UN resources might cause the Communists to seek a negotiated settlement acceptable to the United States.

8. In favor of a decision to pursue this objective are the following considerations. The strengthening of the present Stalinist regime in China, through its alliance with the USSR, is the greatest threat in the Far East to the security interests of the United States in Japan [1390면] and Southeast Asia. An increasing consolidation of the power of the present regime in China and extension of Soviet control over China’s power potential would greatly facilitate eventual Soviet dominance in most of Asia. Consequently, it is in the U.S. national interest to adopt policies which are designed to reduce the power of the present regime in China, weaken or dissolve the Moscow-Peiping Axis, and cause the eventual destruction or reduction of Soviet power in Asia.

9. Owing to Communist China’s growing and potential vulnerabilities, a de facto war with Communist China in Korea continues to provide a significant strategic opportunity, perhaps the last opportunity, for the United States to weaken and undermine the Soviet Union’s principal ally, possibly without the costs of general war either with the USSR or with Communist China itself. The United States can exert its power in the Far East more effectively upon concentrations of Chinese air and ground forces in the area of north China, Manchuria, and Korea than upon Chinese forces in south and central China or in Burma or Indochina. It is conceivable that sufficient power applied against Communist forces in Korea could defeat their armies and seriously shake the Peiping regime, and might also succeed in weakening Commuinst China sufficiently so that for several years it would not be in a position to challenge or disrupt a definitive settlement of the Korean problem. The reduction of Communist China’s growing military potential, if accomplished without major war, would greatly enhance U.S. objectives in Asia, and indirectly contribute to the security of the Atlantic community.

10. A decisive defeat of the Communists in Korea would seriously affect the future development of Communist forces now under the control of the Soviet Union. It is clear that the USSR desires, and is exerting substantial effort to create, a well-trained, well-armed and effective Chinese fighting force to strengthen the military capabilities of the Sino-Soviet partnership. Alarming progress has already been made in the build-up of a Communist air force in China, particularly strong in its jet fighter components.

11. Although hostilities in Korea have probably stimulated military use of manpower and Soviet military aid, losses in men and equipment may have hampered the construction of a modern military machine in China. An armistice would relieve the pressure and thus permit more rapid progress in military development, if the USSR continues to supply military aid. Application by the United States of greatly increased force against the Chinese in Korea would increase the difficulties of carrying out Sino-Soviet plans for the construction and expansion of this military machine.

12. In addition to the military effect on Communist China of a UN effort to unify Korea by force, the political and economic weaknesses [1391면] of the Peiping regime would be intensified. The strains already placed on the internal position of the regime by the losses in Korea would be multiplied and might eventuate in a deterioration of central control and serious dissatisfaction with the Kremlin ties.

13. Unification of Korea by a military decision would provide a stronger security outpost to protect Japan and the off-shore island chain, put an end to the aggression and permit the achievement of the long-standing political objectives of the United Nations in Korea. The defeat of the Communists in Korea would achieve the unification of Korea and satisfy the aspirations of the Koreans.

14. It is therefore clear that if the UN, without provoking general war, were able to impose a military decision upon the communists in Korea and thus make possible the unification of Korea as part of the free world, the resulting victory would, in addition to dealing a serious blow to the Chinese Communist regime, immeasurably enhance the prestige and position of the United States and the United Nations throughout the world.

15. However, against the advantages described above must be weighed the following disadvantages involved in a determination to achieve the unification of Korea by military means.

16. Consideration of the employment in Korea of the “significant additional United States forces and means” which the Joint Chiefs of Staff have said is necessary to a military decision, must take into account the present security position of the United States, the worldwide military commitments of the United States and the forces and means available to meet these commitments.

17. The United States is faced with the continuing danger of global war, as well as local aggression, in a situation of inadequate military strength. Such forces as may be committed in Korea are not necessarily in the best position to meet these dangers. Attrition and materiel expenditure in Korea detract from our efforts elsewhere, and the requirements of UN forces in Korea have already served to reduce the possible flow of U.S. military assistance to other allied areas.

18. The continuing danger of general war, the difficulties in achieving military production targets, and the limited resources presently available for stepping up the military action in Korea suggest the problems and dangers of attempting to unify Korea by military means. It is estimated that were such a course decided upon, the necessary troop reinforcement might not be accomplished until well into 1952. Such reinforcements would of necessity be supplied largely by the United States, would delay the planned build-up of forces in Europe, deplete the Army general reserve, and result in an unsatisfactory deployment of U.S. military strength. The logistical problems [1392면] involved in maintaining and supplying these additional forces in Korea would present the most serious difficulties. Even if such a build-up were started at once and met with favorable results, it is questionable whether a decision could be reached and the ground forces involved be redeployed prior to mid-1953.

19. A determination by the United States to enlarge its objectives regarding Korea that would require a military decision necessarily raises the question of the UN character of the action in Korea. The United States would presumably attempt to persuade the nations participating in the Korean action to accept this new objective. It is unlikely that these nations would agree and the United States would then be forced to take unilateral action, thereby losing the support of its principal allies and transforming the Korean action from a United Nations effort to a United States effort.

20. Finally, while such objectives and a military decision might be achieved in Korea without provoking war with the Soviet Union, it is clear that the risks of general war with the USSR and with Communist China would be increased were we to decide to seek enlarged objectives and to apply the necessary military means to unify all Korea to the Yalu River and the territorial frontier. Such a course of action would appear to the Soviets and the Chinese Communists as a real threat to their security, and while it might lead to a direct confrontation of American and Soviet air and ground forces in Korea, it would more probably impel the Communists to seek an armistice before unification by force had been accomplished. And, assuming that, without Soviet intervention, we were able to secure a military decision in Korea with the additional forces required for such an operation, we might still face the problem of how to put an end to the Chinese Communist aggression on more than a temporary basis and permit the phased redeployment of U.S. forces from Korea. Unless the state of siege against Communist China were really effective, we would be heavily committed indefinitely to hold a defense line along the Yalu River between Korea and Communist China. There is little reason to suppose the Communists would formally agree to any settlement on that line or eventually would not seek to disrupt or challenge it. In that unstable situation, not only would we be unable to reduce our forces in Korea; we would be permanently committed on the mainland of Asia for as long as the Communists wished to keep us there. Minor Communist military efforts could impose a heavy drain on our forces, since ROK troops would not be capable of defending the frontier alone. Strategically, our forces would remain seriously vulnerable in case of a Russian attack or all-out war. In summary, even a decisive military victory in Korea and its unification by force might [1393면] be a hollow victory in the short term, and a major strategic error in the long term. The risks of such an effort are clearly great, and might be out of proportion to the possible gains.

Achievement of an Acceptable Settlement and Continuation of Present Objectives:

21. In favor of seeking an acceptable settlement in Korea are the following considerations. Pursuit of such an objective would not require any large additional commitment of forces to Korea and might eventually permit the diversion of matériel to other theatres. UN casualties would stay relatively low and time would be gained to build up the ROK forces. The United Nations Command could remain in a relatively favorable defensive and logistic position, since it has the defensive strength at present to stop an offensive with extremely heavy and possibly crippling losses on Communist forces. On the political side, this objective affords perhaps the only opportunity of ending hostilities and settling the Korean problem by some kind of modus vivendi in Korea. Our allies, the United Nations, and world opinion fully support this objective.

22. Moreover, an armistice in Korea would help to reduce the heightening tension all over the world, and particularly in the Far East, which in turn might facilitate solutions of other outstanding issues in areas other than the Far East by setting an example of a negotiated settlement of a critical conflict of interests. Equally important, an armistice in Korea would bring temporary peace to an afflicted people, put and end to the battle casualties, and permit the orderly reconstruction of a large part of Korea.

23. This objective would not imply the imposition of maximum terms in Korea, such as the unification of Korea, and therefore would not risk provoking Soviet direct or increased indirect intervention, since the USSR is probably not prepared to accept the risk of general war to achieve its maximum objectives in Korea.

24. At the same time, achievement of this objective would permit the U.S. and its allies to hold strong positions in Korea in order to make good the already great sacrifice of the UN action against aggression in Korea, to guard against its renewal, and to provide protection for the security of Japan.

25. Concerning the disadvantages of this choice the following considerations are pertinent. An acceptable settlement admittedly will not produce the lasting and satisfactory solution of the Korean problem which the United States would desire, nor are the courses of action now underway or proposed likely to achieve the political settlement which is the ultimate objective of the United States. If the pursuit of these courses of action fails after a reasonable period to [1394면] produce even a satisfactory minimum settlement, the United States will have to reexamine the choices which will be presented. Expansion of hostilities into China may become unavoidable. In that event, a limited objective would become increasingly difficult to follow. As the delays in reaching any kind of settlement in Korea increase, American public opinion will come less and less to support an indefinite holding campaign in which the enemy retains the tactical initiative, and which could develop into a permanent stalemate for the United States. While a de facto cessation of hostilities or a minimum armistice would necessarily delay withdrawal of U.S. forces from Korea and therefore adversely affect our global military position, such a situation would permit the communists to disengage for operations in the critical area of Southeast Asia or against Formosa. Acceptance of this objective might eliminate a major opportunity to retard the formation of a modern military machine in Communist China.

26. An attempt to achieve this objective would also face serious risks because the growing Communist air build-up in North China and Manchuria may make the military courses of action in Korea difficult to carry out, and prejudice the achievement of an acceptable settlement. The implications of this build-up are considerable. Any necessary counter-action by the United Nations Command might have the effect of broadening the war in Korea to a war against Communist China, which would invalidate the policy of confining hostilities to Korea. The build-up already has reached a stage where serious consequences to UN forces in the Korean area might result from expanded employment of this enemy air potential. Inasmuch as it is the responsibility of the United States to maintain the security of its forces, it must be recognized that it may be necessary for the United States to employ its air forces unilaterally and on short notice to attack certain Chinese Communist air bases whenever the scale of enemy air activity is such as seriously to jeopardize the security of the United States forces in the Korean area.

27. An enemy decision to employ Communist aircraft against UN forces in Korea at or beyond the battle line might begin by air attacks against UN air bases in Korea. This might take place either through a steadily increasing number of small-scale attacks on U.S. bases or by a sudden massive attack without adequate advance warning. The first might present a challenge to UN air forces, while the second could cause serious damage to UN planes and facilities. In case of massive attacks, the standing instructions to the Commander in Chief of UN forces should be carried out. Thus, the only way to protect UN forces in Korea from the effects of cumulative or massive enemy air strikes may be by ending the restrictions on air operations in Manchuria [1395면] and North China in order to retaliate directly against Communist air bases.

28. Therefore, the choice of this objective concerning Korea eventually may raise the issue of whether to leave the initiative to the Communists to bomb and attack our air bases—to try to end our air sanctuary; or whether to take anticipatory and preventive action to end their sanctuary by destroying Communist planes on the ground in Manchuria or North China before they actually attack our air bases. Success or failure in ending the respective air sanctuaries in Korea or in Manchuria may lie with the air force that strikes first. However, there are many strong reasons for the United States not to take that initiative unilaterally. Since the Communists appear to want a cessation of hostilities (NIE–55), it is probably a safe assumption that the enemy will continue to prefer to retain his own air sanctuary. Since anticipatory action might risk attacks on the crucial supply base of Pusan, direct Soviet air intervention, and the possibility of global war, it might lead to an even more untenable situation than would be the case of leaving the initiative to the enemy to break the UN sanctuary. It would certainly raise such difficult questions as obtaining support from our allies and committing additional air resources to Korea to implement such an action.

29. On balance, it is apparent that both the Soviet side and the free world find advantage in not trying at this time to reach their respective maximum objectives in Korea by force. In this situation, U.S. national interests would be better served if we continue to seek the objectives set forth in NSC 48/5 rather than expanded objectives. At the same time, it may become necessary to increase military and other pressures on the enemy to achieve our limited objectives. The risks and drawbacks of attempting to secure the unification of Korea by force and the defeat there of Communist armies, particularly the considerable uncertainties and costs of this objective, outweigh the disadvantages of continuing to seek an armistice, a minimum settlement of the Korean conflict, and the unification of Korea by political means.

Nature of an Acceptable Settlement in Korea

30. A settlement for Korea would include three distinct phases: first, a satisfactory armistice; second, an acceptable minimum settlement of the Korean conflict; and third, a political settlement establishing a united, independent and democratic Korea. Each of these phases is an objective in itself for the United States. Each has certain problems which are analyzed in the following paragraphs.

a. A Satisfactory Armistice: A satisfactory armistice agreement would provide for a cease-fire, a demilitarized zone based on a demarcation line, a system of inspection and observation, and an exchange of [1396면] prisoners which would return all UN and ROK military prisoners. The degree and nature of inspection and observation would be subject to negotiation.

b. An Acceptable Minimum Settlement: Following an armistice, the principal objectives to be achieved would be the establishment of ROK authority over all of Korea south of the demilitarized zone, the development of sufficient ROK Military power to deter or repel a renewed aggression by North Korean forces alone, and the withdrawal by stages of non-Korean military forces from Korea as circumstances permit. No settlement should be accepted which would hinder the strengthening of ROK military forces, retard the rehabilitation of the ROK, or jeopardize the U.S. position with respect to the USSR, Formosa, or the seating of Communist China in the UN. The problem of withdrawal of forces will undoubtedly be most difficult to solve. Since the United States will not be prepared to sacrifice the security of the ROK forces, it is likely that no agreement will be reached quickly. The Chinese forces will be likely to remain in Korea for a considerable length of time, and it will therefore be necessary for the UN forces to remain for a like period.

c. A Political Settlement: The ultimate objective for Korea, as declared repeatedly by the United States and as embodied in a series of resolutions by the Security Council and General Assembly of the United Nations, is the unity and independence of the country. The United States could not agree to any political settlement for Korea which did not fulfill this objective. Certainly the Korean people would never accept a political settlement which perpetuated the division of their country. The Communists will sacrifice their direct control over North Korea in favor of a political settlement only in the event they become convinced that their control of the whole country can be easily achieved through subversion. Consequently the likelihood of achieving a political settlement is remote and a divided Korea is to be expected for the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, the United States should take the initiative in negotiations looking toward a political settlement for Korea. It will be important to make clear to the world that the United States seeks through the United Nations an equitable political settlement for Korea and that responsibility for the frustration of this settlement, when it develops, will lie directly with the communists.

Courses of Action

31. The courses of action which the United States should pursue in order to achieve our objectives in Korea necessarily vary according to the contingencies which may arise, namely, achievement of an armistice, failure of armistice negotiations, and unacceptable protraction of the armistice negotiations.

32. It is recognized that the armistice is the first step in reaching a minimum settlement. The greatest danger in an armistice situation will be renewal of the aggression. Whatever system of inspection may be evolved, this cannot in itself be depended upon as a deterrent to the communists. A more powerful deterrent will be the knowledge [1397면] by Moscow and Peiping that the renewal of the aggression will bring prompt and certain retaliation, not only in Korea but upon China itself. Commitment on the part of the United States to take such retaliatory action involves grave risks including that of global war. However, once having accepted an armistice, it is unlikely that the communists would decide to invade the ROK until they had had a considerable period to build up the necessary forces. It appears more likely that the next communist move would come in another part of the world, where success might be more easily achieved. During this period of time the strength of the free world would continue to increase and we should be better prepared for the risk. The publicly expressed determination of the United States and our principal allies to retaliate against China in case of renewed aggression would serve notice on the communist world which they would regard with the greatest seriousness. It thus would become the “greater sanction”, the strongest deterrent to aggression which we could devise, and therefore worth the risk.

33. The “greater sanction” would take the form of agreement among our principal allies to a public declaration that renewal of the aggression would be met by military action without geographic limitation. It would be desirable to obtain agreement to such a statement from as many as possible of the sixteen nations participating in the Korean action. If agreement cannot be reached, the United States should make clear to the USSR and Communist China that future military aggression in Korea will result in a military reaction that would not necessarily be limited in geographic scope. [주11]

34. In the second contingency, that of a failure of armistice negotiations, the Commander in Chief, United Nations Command, would step up the military action against the communists to the extent permitted by the forces available to him. These forces are presently sufficient only to maintain military pressure against the Communist front and are not adequate to achieve a conclusive military decision.

35. A clear failure of armistice negotiations could come about in several ways:

a.

Announcement by the communists that they are terminating negotiations with no intention to resume them.

b.

Renewal of large-scale hostilities by the communists, with or without announcement.

c.

Decision by the United States and allies to break off negotiations.

[1398면]

36. A U.S. decision to break off negotiations would of course be taken only after the most careful consideration of the consequences. Such a decision would imply willingness to increase substantially the scale of military action and to extend the conflict. It would presumably be taken only after the exhaustion of UN efforts to obtain agreement to an armistice and would therefore occur after the situation of protracted negotiations had developed, and which is described below.

37. In the case of failure of armistice negotiations, the most vigorous efforts would be exerted to bring about a complete embargo on shipments and shipping to Communist China. It would probably be necessary, in addition, to impose a naval blockade in order to achieve an effective interdiction of Communist Chinese seaborne imports. Whether other nations, particularly the United Kingdom, would agree to a naval blockade, is of course open to question. Unless the blockade were applied to Dairen and Port Arthur, large loopholes would exist. It might also be necessary to stop Soviet ships proceeding to other ports, and their resistance and our possible retaliation pose risks which must be calculated. The effect of a blockade and possible communist reaction to it are estimated in a separate study (SE–20).

38. It would appear desirable to attempt to secure cooperation from our principal allies in imposing maximum controls designed to bring about complete economic isolation of Communist China. Whether this can be accomplished by a naval blockade or by coordinated action short of a blockade depends in large degree upon the willingness of the other nations to participate. The United States will need to use maximum influence to persuade other nations, particularly the United Kingdom, to join in such action. It may be that we can succeed in getting agreement to increase controls and finally to impose a blockade. The strongest and most persistent diplomatic action will be required.

39. The third contingency is that of an indefinite protraction of negotiations. In this case our objective would be to bring the enemy to the point of agreement to a satisfactory armistice. Consequently, depending upon continuous estimates of enemy build-up and intentions, such courses of action should be taken as might be determined to be effective in the circumstances. The situation would not indicate the same degree of gravity as a clear failure of negotiations and consequently additional measures could be applied in stages.

40. If negotiations become indefinitely prolonged, the disadvantages of the deployment and maintenance of U.S. forces without a conclusive result in Korea will produce an increase of strains, dissatisfaction on [1399면] the part of our allies, and increasingly unfavorable reaction in the United States. Public pressure would certainly increase to the point where demands for a clear-cut victory might seriously divide the American people, hurt U.S. prestige throughout the world, and endanger the basic strategic position of the United States.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] A separate note from Mr. Lay indicated to the National Security Council that on December 20 President Truman had approved NSC 118/2 and directed its implementation by all appropriate agencies and departments of the U.S. Government under the coordination of the Secretaries of State and Defense.
[주2] At the 110th meeting of the National Security Council on December 19, the NSC had approved NSC 118/1, as amended and revised, in NSC Action No. 595.
[주3] Dated December 7, p. 1259. Annex not printed.
[주4] See footnote 1, p. 1357.
[주5] Ante, p. 1374.
[주6] Not printed; it merely transmitted a revised page of the original record copy of NSC 118/1.
[주7] Dated December 7, p. 1263.
[주8] Not printed.
[주9] References F, G, and H are identified in footnotes 1, 2, and 3 to NSC 118, November 9, p. 1106.
[주10] For the sections of NSC 48/5, dated May 17, dealing with Korea, see p. 439.
[주*] These alternative paragraphs were referred back to the Senior NSC Staff for review in the light of an analysis of the traffic in and out of Communist China and of the probable effectiveness of an embargo or blockade (NSC Action No. 595-a(4)). [Footnote and brackets in the source text.]
[주*] These alternative paragraphs were referred back to the Senior NSC Staff for review in the light of an analysis of the traffic in and out of Communist China and of the probable effectiveness of an embargo or blockade (NSC Action No. 595-a(4)). [Footnote and brackets in the source text.]
[주†] NIE–55, “Communist Capabilities and Probable Courses of Action in Korea through Mid-1952,” (circulated separately by CIA on December 7, 1951); SE–20, “The Probable Consequences of Certain Possible U.S. Courses of Action with Respect to Communist China and Korea,” (advance copy circulated separately by CIA on December 17, 1951). [Footnote in the source text. For NIE–55, see p. 1263; SE–20 is not printed.]
[주11] The text of Paragraph 33 in the Annex to NSC 118/1 read as follows: “33. The ‘greater sanction’ would take the form of agreement among our principal allies to a public declaration that renewal of the aggression would be met by immediate and full-scale UN military action. It would be desirable to obtain agreement to such a statement from as many as possible of the sixteen nations participating in the Korean action. In any event the United States should make clear to the USSR and Communist China that future military aggression in Korea will result in a military reaction that would not necessarily be limited in geographic scope or in methods of warfare employed.”
