secret   priority

Tokyo, 3 December 1951. [주1]

C–58558. HNC–508. For info CINCUNC Adv HNC 508.

[1228면]

“Report of Armistice Conference 3 December. Convened at 1100 hours.

“1. Nam Il opened in the following vein: The proposals on the limitation on the increase of military facilities and observation throughout Korea are political questions which constitute direct interference in the internal administration of the other side and cannot be tolerated. The matter of defensive facilities is an internal matter. UNC carries out inhuman bombing. It is effective because of inadequate AA facilities. Yet UNC refuses to withdraw its Air Force during the Armistice. How then can it interfere with sacred right of Korean people to defend themselves by arranging their defensive facilities? The UNC view that the Armistice Commission have access to all of Korea is an unwarranted interference in internal affairs which will not be tolerated. UNC proposal that both sides refrain from introducing into Korea reinforcements in men and material is inconsistent with its stand on replenishments and replacements. UNC insistence on the latter raises doubt as to its sincerity towards the former. UNC has no justification for its refusal to withdraw from islands north of the demarcation line as the dividing line. UNC has only the obligation to withdraw.

“2. UNC replied in following tenor: Statement made by Nam Il only indicates the other side wants not an armistice but a simple cease fire under protection of which it could increase its military capabilities. As military men the delegation of the other side should recognize that the UNC cannot enter into an armistice which does not involve undertakings by both sides to refrain from attempting to gain a military advantage during the suspension of fighting. As regards joint observation, it would not constitute interference in internal affairs. It would not be a means for intelligence information on such matters as design of weapons. It is necessary, however, that there be joint military observation of key points throughout Korea as mutually agreed to by the two sides. The UNC does not fear joint observation but welcomes it because it will not violate an armistice to which it is a signatory. Why does the other side fear it? What does it plan to hide?

“3. Nam Il reiterated that military facilities and the question of observation are internal questions.

“4. UNC repeated its firm stand in opposition to any increase of military facilities during the armistice and inquired if other side had any suggestion as to a method for resolving the differences which were pointed up yesterday by the UNC.

“5. Nam Il proposed a recess until 1500. Recessed 1200.

“Signed Joy.”

[1229면]

----- 각주 -----
[주1] The source text does not indicate the time of transmission.
