top secret

[Washington,] June 2, 1952.

Subject:

The Issues Requiring Decision in the Korean Internal Political Situation.

The Issues

The basic problem is to determine whether or not the interests of the United States and the United Nations Command require the drastic action of intervening directly in Korean political affairs to maintain constitutional government in order to assure continued operation of the entire Korean civil and military administration without which the United Nations Command could hardly carry out its military mission. The immediate issues are: the release of National Assemblymen, the ending of intimidation and coercion of the Assembly, the resumption of normal functioning of the National Assembly, and the lifting of Rhee’s martial law in Pusan. If public and official pressures continue to have no effect on Rhee and his cohorts, the United States Government and the other interested governments or United Nations agencies will have to make grave decisions on whether or not to permit the demise of representative government and the rise of personal dictatorship and bitter political strife behind the lines in Korea.

Korean Government

Since my report to you of May 29, [주2] the political cleavages have become even more sharp and intense. President Rhee has ignored the admonitions of the United Nations Commission for the Unification and Rehabilitation of Korea, the United States Government, the Commanding General Eighth Army, the Korean Cabinet, the National Assembly and many Korean civil and military leaders. A small coterie of fanatical, unscrupulous, and self-seeking followers of Rhee are clearly the mainspring in the drive to squash the National Assembly and establish their absolute control over the Republic of Korea. Rhee is completely under their influence. They are continuing to arrest and intimidate the [282면] Assemblymen. Rhee is generating an intense propaganda campaign against the National Assembly and against any possible outside intervention, while at the same time his lieutenants have muzzled the domestic press and radio. The Rhee group controls the police, and the political machinery in the provinces. In the absence of any real counter force, Rhee is capitalizing on the present confusion to continue arrests, augment his police forces and to prepare and utilize a smokescreen of an alleged Communist plot. By driving his opposition underground, Rhee is preparing an open pit for subversion and revolution from which it is probable that only the Communists will benefit.

Rhee and his group are claiming that they have imposed martial law and arrested Assemblymen in order to break a Communist plot. United States and United Nations authorities do not believe that the evidence supports the existence of such plot, but that it is a clever move to cloak Rhee’s schemes to break his opposition. There would appear, however, to be some Korean politicians who have been tainted with Communist or with Japanese funds, perhaps unknowingly.

Despite increasing coercion, the National Assembly continues to meet and to oppose Rhee, but its ability to continue functioning appears to be diminishing daily. The opposition to Rhee is leaderless, incohesive, and without effective means of self-protection. Nevertheless, the Embassy reports that dissatisfaction with Rhee’s tactics and objectives is increasing throughout the Korean Government and surmises that many of his present backers may hop on the bandwagon if they were sure that Rhee was on the way out. Korean military officials are becoming increasingly dissatisfied.

UNCURK

UNCURK believes that reconciliation between Rhee and his opposition is impossible and immediate strong actions are needed. UNCURK has recommended that General Clark make a strong approach to Rhee and that President Truman send a strong personal letter to Rhee. UNCURK’s chairman believes that the Commission would recommend the imposition of martial law by the United Nations Command if the United States Government and the UNC deem it necessary. UNCURK seems to think that major decisions for concrete action are now beyond its purview and are squarely up to UN member nations who must decide at once how far to go. UNCURK and UNKRA are exploring possibilities of holding up reconstruction projects until constitutional government is restored, and are so informing Rhee. The Embassy and United States military authorities in Pusan are meeting daily and keeping in closest possible touch with UNCURK. In response to a suggestion from the Department, the UN Secretary General has encouraged UNCURK to take a strong stand in this crisis.

[283면]

General Clark

On May 30 a joint State–Defense message [주3] was transmitted to General Clark instructing him to meet with Rhee to add the support of the United Nations Command to the stand taken by the Embassy and UNCURK on the lifting of martial law and restoration of constitutional processes. Clark has been told to use “the strongest terms” in his talk with Rhee. However, there is no open threat or ultimatum in his instructions. In reply [주4] to the joint message, General Clark has stated his view that the situation may require positive and forceful military action by the UNC; but that political negotiations and pressures upon Rhee should, if possible, continue to be used to restore normalcy. General Clark pointed out that military intervention is somewhat of an empty threat as long as we do not have sufficient troops simultaneously to meet a possible major Communist offensive, regain control over the POWs on Koje-do, and handle possible disturbances in our rear areas. He believes that we must wait until the situation is clearly getting out of hand and positive action is required, before mustering all of the forces available and establishing military government or martial law. General Clark visited Pusan on June 2 to consult with the Embassy, UNCURK, and presumably with Rhee and his principal Cabinet officers responsible for the crisis. However, Clark indicated on June 1 that he was not sure he would see Rhee because it might stiffen Rhee’s resistance. General Van Fleet has categorically opposed the imposition of ROK martial law in Pusan and urged the United States Government and the United Nations to take strong measures.

The Embassy

On May 30 the Embassy delivered a note to President Rhee [주5] urging him to lift martial law and informing him that the United States Government is prepared to support the UNCURK statement along the same lines. Rhee treated this note with evident contempt and arrogance. During the past three days, Lightner has taken a strong stand that the time for talk is over and that action is urgently needed before it is too late and Rhee has gained his ends. The Embassy has recommended an ultimatum to Rhee to release the arrested Assemblymen, guarantee the functioning of the National Assembly, and assure the protection of the Assemblymen and their families. The Embassy would couple this ultimatum with a warning that the United Nations would assume responsibility for the protection of the National Assembly if the ultimatum is unheeded. In advocating speedy action now as less costly than any [284면] action that might be unavoidable later, the Embassy has specifically suggested several actions short of the imposition of martial law:

a)

Assumption of control over ROK police and military establishments in Pusan;

b)

UNC protection for Assemblymen and families and measures to assure freedom of National Assembly to meet together with release of arrested Assemblymen;

c)

Withholding of economic aid and implementation of the recently concluded economic agreement, except for direct relief supplies;

d)

Full publicity for these actions including notification to provincial authorities;

e)

Takeover of martial law by ROK Army and Naval units under the direction of the Commander in Chief, United Nations Command.

Department

The Department has approved the text and delivery of the above note but has withheld its public release pending final decision in Washington. The Department has informed the Embassy that any representations to Rhee at this time should not contain any ultimatum or implied threats of retaliation, as the United States Government must be in a position to carry through on any action.

We have also informed the Embassy that we are inclined to favor action which would provide protection for the National Assembly, at least as a first step, and that any action of this type must be taken in response to a request from the National Assembly to UNCURK and then in response to UNCURK’s recommendations to the United States Government as the Unified Command. The Department is concerned over the grave consequences and long-range implications of direct and active intervention by the United States Government in the Korean internal situation.

Decisions Required by the United States Government

It is urgent that the following decisions be taken as soon as possible:

a.

Whether the United States Government, in consultation with UN agencies and other interested governments, should take all measures short of martial law to restore political stability in the ROK; such measures to include publication of the United States note of May 30, diplomatic protests from interested governments concerned, withholding of additional economic aid, maximum publicity regarding Rhee’s defiance, safe quarters and moral support for the National Assembly under UN auspices and provided by the UNC, a show of UN military force in cooperation with loyal ROK armed forces to restore stability, and withholding of recognition of any elections that Rhee and his supporters may hold to replace National Assemblymen or eventually to create an entirely new government.

b.

Whether in case the above measures fail to bring about the desired results, or necessitate still further action, the United States Government should fully intervene to restore political stability by taking over the [285면] Korean national police, imposing martial law through the use of United Nations forces, including Korean elements thereof, making provision for the security of President Rhee as well as the National Assembly and supporting the new President to be elected by the Assembly.

Possible Consequences of Above Decisions

In considering these decisions, it should be recognized that direct intervention could result in the following eventualities:

a.

Rhee may inspire demonstrations and riots;

b.

Rhee might withdraw Korean forces from General Clark’s control;

c.

political jockeying within the National Assembly may increase and the United States may be directly associated with subsequent political leadership;

d.

a vicious propaganda campaign against foreign intervention will arise;

e.

limited intervention as proposed by the Embassy may lead unavoidably to full intervention and the imposition of martial law by the United Nations Command; and

f.

Rhee and his coterie may not give up but will use their political and police powers to keep and enlarge control over the machinery of government—legislative and executive.

Conclusion

The single crucial issue is now to ensure the integrity of the National Assembly and the constitution. If that is not done, the course of events in Korea will severely damage the interests of the United States and the United Nations, for the whole mission of the United Nations will become gravely endangered by internal dissension, while world-wide support for the Republic of Korea might disintegrate.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] This memorandum was drafted by Young.
[주2] Not printed (795B.00/5–2952).
[주3] Reference was to telegram DA 910149, CSUSA to CINCFE, May 30, not printed, but see footnote 2, p. 274.
[주4] Telegram CX 69393, CINCUNC to CSUSA, May 31, p. 274.
[주5] The text was transmitted in telegram 1200, May 30, p. 266.
