top secret

[Washington,] May 23, 1952.

Subject:

Courses of Action in the Event of a Break-off of Negotiations

I believe that the NSC should urgently consider whether, in the event that armistice negotiations are terminated and it becomes apparent that the Communists do not intend to initiate an all-out offensive, this Government and the UNC should:

(a)

Recognize the existence of a military stalemate and endeavor to create a situation which, for all practical purposes, would achieve the objectives outlined in paragraph 1 of NSC 118/2 [주2] without regard to the formal conclusion of an armistice agreement (Tab A); or

(b)

Exercise additional military and economic pressures designed to inflict severe punishment and heavy casualties upon the enemy, thereby forcing him to accept an armistice on the basis of our package proposal” (Tab B); or

(c)

Launch an all-out offensive designed to drive the Communist forces from Korea and unify the country by force (Tab C).

In the event that the Communists terminate the negotiations and resume hostilities, we will be faced with a fait accompli, and the only reasonable course open to us will be to oppose force with force and endeavor to impose such heavy casualties and inflict such punishment upon the aggressor that in due course we may assume the military initiative and compel him to accept our stated terms for an armistice, or if the occasion presents, destroy his forces and achieve a complete victory.

It is entirely possible, however, that even though the negotiations are terminated, the Communists will not assume the offensive, but will continue to adopt a defensive posture, thereby leaving the next move up to the United Nations Command. Under these circumstances, our selection of the appropriate course of action will be based on military as well as political factors. I recognize the tremendous effect which the military [232면] factors must have on our selection and do not believe a final decision can be made until such time as the Military Establishment has reviewed the alternatives in light of UN and Communist capabilities, the strategic importance of Korea to our security interests in Japan and the Far East, and the feasibility of expanding the ROK forces. For this reason the papers attached at Tabs A, B and C confine themselves only to a review of the probable political advantages and disadvantages accruing to each of the aforementioned courses of action, and to comments on the applicability of specific provisions of NSC 118/2 to those courses.

Tab “A”

Memorandum Prepared by H.O.H. Frelinghuysen of the Office of Northeast Asian Affairs

Problem

To determine whether it is politically advisable and feasible for this government, in the event of a break-off of armistice negotiations, to adopt a course of action which would recognize the continued existence of a military stalemate; and whether, if it is decided to adopt such a course of actions, the recommendations contained in NSC 118/2 are applicable.

Discussion

Our military objectives in Korea are to repel aggression and to restore international peace and security in the area. Secretary Acheson and our military leaders have stated publicly that these objectives could be achieved if the territorial integrity of the ROK were maintained, the fighting brought to an end, and safeguards established against the renewal of aggression. We are trying to get the enemy to stop fighting on this basis. The failure of the current armistice talks would not, of course, alter these objectives.

A course of action recognizing the military stalemate, minimizing our casualties and the hostilities, except for air and naval action, would for all practical purposes accomplish these objectives. It would command the support of the participating nations and other UN member states. It would keep to a minimum the number of casualties resulting from hostilities, and reduce our economic and military burden. It would permit our efforts and treasure to be devoted to the expansion of ROK forces and the rehabilitation of the country, and reduce the likelihood of an extension of the hostilities. It would, at the same time, with expanded ROK forces progressively replacing UN forces, permit the maintenance of strong military positions on a defensible line and pose a constant threat to the Communists, thus tying down Chinese forces and preventing them from engaging in action elsewhere. It would probably tend to [233면] encourage both the participating nations and those not now participating to contribute additional troops as a sign of their continuing interest in Korea and it would permit us to maintain a strong security outpost for Japan.

On the other hand this alternative would be criticized by those who already believe we have appeased the Communists. It would give added emphasis to the charges that we do not want to win a victory in the Far East. Being unacceptable to the ROKs, it would increase the danger of their non-cooperation and possibly inspire them to take such military action as would in effect nullify our own efforts to restrict the hostilities. It would incur the risk of having the Communists interpret our action, particularly if they involve the reduction of our forces, as a sign of weakness thereby encouraging them to launch an offensive at some later date. Since it would not be a clear-cut victory on our part, it would have an adverse propaganda effect in the Far East. It would impose no moral obligation on the Communists not to renew hostilities, thereby leaving Korea as a continuing source of danger.

Concurrent Action

In considering the possible adoption of this course of action which would have the effect of restricting the hostilities to minor skirmishing and probing action together with continued air and naval bombardment, we should examine whether there is any possible concurrent action which might be taken to make this plan a more effective means for implementing U.S. foreign polity (policy) vis-à-vis the Communists.

One of the chief arguments for renewing full-scale hostilities in Korea is that failure to do so would constitute appeasement and would be proof that the U.S. and UN are prepared only to resist small aggressions, and not major ones. If, however, we can keep the fighting and casualties to a minimum, continue to confine the area of hostilities to Korea while at the same time emphatically and dramatically indicating our determination to resist Communist expansion in the Far East, we would not only strengthen our ties with our Allies and win new friends in Asia but also avoid charges of a vacillating and ineffectual Far Eastern policy.

It is suggested, therefore, that the NSC might consider, as an alternative to assuming the offensive in Korea and as an action supplemental to the recognition of a military stalemate in Korea, the strengthening of the general structure of the security in the Far East. To this end, our efforts and resources which would otherwise be expended in probably futile hostilities on the narrow front of the Korean peninsula should rather be invested on the broad front of Asia, including Korea, Japan, Formosa and Southeast Asia.

A full-scale renewal of Korean hostilities would require us to maintain our forces in Korea at least at their present level, incur countless [234면] casualties and expend treasure at the rate of approximately $5 billion per year. Were such monies, troops and efforts utilized instead in a general security assistance program embracing the expansion of ROK forces in order to permit a gradual reduction of our own forces elsewhere in the area, the strengthening of our Far Eastern Air Force for action anywhere in the area, military aid to Japan, Indochina, Burma, Malaya, and Formosa, we would establish a broad and powerful front of resistance to Communist expansion. Such a plan would be in accord with recent requests of ROK for increased military assistance; would reduce losses of our own manpower, would be more acceptable to our Allies, particularly the UK, Australia and France; and more importantly, would constitute a far more serious blow to the Communists who fear such a united front, than would an all out offensive in Korea. It would strengthen forces of the countries of Asia and the Pacific area and facilitate the eventual formation of a regional system in which each participant would play its role in a master plan designed to defeat Communist efforts at piece meal conquest of the Far East.

Applicability of NSC 118/2

The course of action which has been proposed appears to have the practical effect of achieving all the objectives set forth in Paragraph 1 of NSC 118/2 except for Paragraph 1 a (1) which provides for the conclusion of an armistice and for Paragraph 1 c which provides for military action until an armistice is agreed and therefore is more in accord with the course of action envisaged in “Tab B”. Economic and political sanctions could, however, be continued and, if deemed advisable and feasible, intensified.

The recommendations contained in Paragraph 2 b are not directly applicable to the situation envisaged herein and should be carefully reviewed prior to implementation.

Paragraph 2 b (2) is inapplicable.

Paragraph 2 b (3) would remove all restrictions on military action and therefore, would probably be unacceptable to our Allies as leaving too great discretion to the Military Commander enabling him to make decisions which could void completely the effect of the contemplated course of action.

Paragraph 2 b (4). Same objection probably applies.

Paragraph 2 b (5). Although this might create some objections by our Allies, this Government should seriously endeavor to implement it.

Paragraph 2 b (7) should be implemented and could be expected to be successful particularly if the participating and other nations were convinced that neither we nor the ROK would initiate military action which would spark an all-out offensive by either side.

Paragraph 2 b (8) is a matter for military determination but certainly contains inherent dangers.

[235면]

Paragraph 2 c is of course directly opposed to the course of action recommended here and is discussed at Tab “B”.

Paragraph 2 [d]. All recommendations are applicable and political advantages can be obtained from a vigorous implementation of 2 d (2).

Tab “B”

Memorandum Prepared by H.O.H. Frelinghuysen of the Office of Northeast Asian Affairs

Problem

To determine whether, in the event negotiations fail, this Government should adopt a course of action which would call for the exercise of such additional economic and military pressures as would force the Communists to accept an armistice; and to determine whether, in the event it is decided to adopt such a course of action, the provisions of NSC 118/2 are applicable. [주*]

If the armistice negotiations terminate unsuccessfully or even if they are protracted indefinitely and fruitlessly this Government will be under heavy pressure from American public opinion to follow a course of action which would force the Communists to accept an armistice on our terms. Recent public opinion surveys indicate a growing dissatisfaction with the present political and military stalemate and reveal a repetition of the earlier demands for a clear-cut victory in Korea including the imposition of the necessary economic and military pressures to bring it about. Similarly such a course of action would receive the whole-hearted backing of the people and government of the ROK.

There is little doubt that if this end would be accomplished without too great an additional U.S. military commitment or without disproportionately heavy casualties, it would represent a great victory for the UN, and tend to emphasize any divergencies existing between the USSR and Communist China. It would increase presently existing strains in the Chinese and North Korean Regimes, and at the same time enhance our prestige in the Far East and other countries now threatened by Communist aggression. It would reduce the Chinese Communists and North Koreans effectiveness as military powers, and contribute to the continued security of the ROK, thereby reducing, if not eliminating, an important source of World tension. It would encourage the people and Government of ROK, thus enabling them better to attain political, economic and military stability.

[236면]

On the other hand, such a course of action would probably prove undesirable if not unacceptable to our Allies, perhaps making it necessary for us “to go it alone”; the greatly increased casualties and the fate of the prisoners of war would undoubtedly create demands for the extension of hostilities to Manchuria and the China mainland thereby increasing the risk of Soviet involvement and a third world war; would adversely affect our military assistance programs to other areas of the world; might, in the event that it appeared to be succeeding, inspire aggressive Communist action on other frontiers to relieve the pressure; would probably be met with every possible resistance on the part of the Soviet Union including the possible use of its air force, submarines and perhaps specialized ground elements.

Applicability of NSC 118/2

The course of action considered herein is, in practically all respects, in accord with U.S. objectives as set forth in Paragraph (1) aNSC 118/2. Paragraph (1) a (4) would, however, need clarifying as it is unlikely that the desired political objectives could be accomplished if the stated limitation remains imposed on the expansion of ROK forces. The difficulty of achieving the objective cited in Paragraph (1) b, i.e. “Avoid the extension of hostilities in Korea into a general war .…” will be greatly enhanced but not necessarily made impossible.

As far as the Recommendations are concerned Paragraphs 2 b, c, and d are applicable and despite the objections which some of our Allies may raise to having all of these recommendations put into effect, the exigencies of the situation and the dissatisfaction of the American public with “half-way” measures will undoubtedly make it imperative that we make every endeavor to implement them.

Tab “C”

Memorandum Prepared by H. O. H. Frelinghuysen of the Office of Northeast Asian Affairs

Problem:

To determine whether, in the event of a break-off of armistice negotiations, this Government should initiate an all-out military offensive designed to drive the Communists out of Korea and unify the country by force; and, whether if it is decided to adopt this course of action, the recommendations contained in NSC 118/2 are applicable.

Discussion:

(This course of action is fully analyzed in the Staff Annex of NSC 118/2.) It would be the course of action most acceptable to the Government and people of the ROK and to that segment of American public opinion which demands “total victory”. It would, if successful, [237면] eliminate Korea as a source of world tension and represent a major victory in the free world’s struggle against Communist expansion. The strength and determination evidenced by such action would undoubtedly give renewed faith and encouragement to the people of the Far East and other areas faced by or struggling under Communist oppression. It would inflict a major blow to the military strength of the Chinese Communists, perhaps resulting in a major split in the Sino-Soviet partnership. The unification of Korea would not only eliminate Korea as a world trouble spot but would also reduce our future economic commitment to that country by restoring it to a position where, with rehabilitation assistance from the U.S. and U.N., it could gradually attain economic viability.

Since the attainment of this objective would represent such a tremendous victory for the U.S. and democratic interest, it is clear that the Communist orbit, led by the USSR, would probably be prepared to go to almost any lengths, including total war, to deny its achievement. At the present time there exist a number of points susceptible to undesirable Communist pressures designed to reduce the success of our efforts in Korea. It is probable that in direct proportion to our success in subjecting North Korea to our control, Soviet-inspired incidents, if not actual hostilities would break out at one or several of such points. It is extremely probable that, in the event of a UN attack sufficient to unify Korea by force, the Soviet Union would be prepared to render all necessary assistance, including the direct involvement of Soviet forces, to forestall such an eventuality.

A course of action contemplating the defeat of Communist control in Korea would be unacceptable to our Allies and undoubtedly result in a gradual loss of their support. Indeed, they would probably exhibit an increasingly hostile attitude which would have an adverse effect on the successful implementation of our foreign policy in other areas. The success of which would be further reduced by the tremendous burdens imposed upon our national economy and military production, thus necessitating a drastic curtailment of our assistance programs.

Applicability of NSC 118/2:

The objectives envisaged in the course of action discussed above are not in accord with those set forth in para 1 of NSC 118/2. The latter document envisaged the termination of hostilities at as early a date as possible and the withdrawal by stages of non-Korean Armed Forces. Although NSC 118/2 provides for the development of “strong barriers against Communist subversion and military aggression in Korea”, it does not contemplate the elimination of Communist control from all of Korea nor the achievement of the unification of the country by force. This is made clear in para 1d which states that the U.S. should have as [238면] its objective the development of “political and social conditions in Korea which would facilitate an independent and democratic Korea.”

The recommendations in paras 2b, c, d though applicable to the course of action under discussion would probably not be sufficient for the accomplishment of the objectives thereof. Para 2b(2) recommends that this Government “increase the scale of military operations consistent with the capabilities of the forces available to the Commander in Chief of the UN forces”. It is apparent from the discussions contained in the NSC staff study and from General Ridgway’s recent statements before Congressional Committees [주3] that the forces presently available in Korea are not sufficient for an all out offensive.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] This memorandum was drafted by Frelinghuysen.
[주2] For text of NSC 118/2, see Foreign Relations, 1951, vol. vii, Part 1, p. 1382.
[주*] The Staff Annex of NSC 118/2 fully analyzes the pros and cons of this course of action. [Footnote in the source text. For text of the Annex, see Foreign Relations, 1951, vol. vii, Part 1, p. 1387.]
[주3] For a summary of Ridgway’s remarks before an executive session of the Senate Armed Services Committee on May 21, 1952, which were made public by Senator Richard B. Russell, see the Washington Post, May 22, 1952.
