top secret

Washington, May 18, 1953.

Subject:

Korean Armistice Negotiations

The Korean negotiations are at a crisis. Our position vis-à-vis our Allies is deteriorating daily. We particularly lack support for our position [1047면] on the immediate release of Korean non-repatriate POWs at the time the armistice comes into effect and for our position that the custodial commission act on the basis of unanimity in substantive matters. There is also a general feeling among our Allies that the UNC position should be as close as possible to the Indian General Assembly resolution.

On the other hand, President Rhee is strongly opposed and is fomenting public opposition in Korea to any armistice along present lines. In particular, Rhee has also taken an apparently adamant position that Koreans resisting repatriation be released immediately upon an armistice coming into effect rather than turned over to the custodial commission for processing in the same manner as the Chinese. If unable to prevent an armistice along present lines, Rhee is trying to obtain a U.S. commitment to a security pact.

Subject to your approval and after consultation with our Allies, we propose to instruct Clark to present our final position at the next meeting with the Communists and to hold this meeting in executive session.

We recommend that this position be:

1.

Maintaining our present position on accepting a five-nation custodial commission, subject to the condition that all armed forces and operating personnel be supplied exclusively by India.

2.

Changing our present position on the immediate release of Korean non-repatriates upon coming into effect of an armistice and agreeing that Korean non-repatriates will be turned over to the custody of the commission in the same manner as Chinese.

3.

Changing our present position that the commission will act on the basis of unanimity on substantive matters, and agreeing that the commission will reach decision on all matters by majority vote.

4.

Maintaining all elements in our present position on detailed terms of reference for the operation of the custodial commission which are necessary to assure that the right of Chinese Communist and North Korean access to the prisoners is subject to conditions which will prevent use of coercion and force against the non-repatriates.

5.

Maintaining our previously planned final position that we agree to submission to the political conference of the question of disposition of the remaining non-repatriates with the provision that failing determination of their disposition within a total of 120 days of their being handed over to the POW commission they would be released. In presenting this position to the Communists, the UNC Delegation would also indicate our willingness to accept the alternative formulation contained in the Indian General Assembly resolution providing for prompt referral of the question to the United Nations.

The foregoing would be presented as the final position of the UNC and if not accepted by the Communists within a period of one week negotiations would be terminated rather than recessed and all previous agreements voided as to the immunity and neutralization of the Munsan–Panmunjom–Kaesong area and access thereto. Also, all Korean and Chinese POWs opposed to repatriation would promptly be [1048면] released, the Koreans to remain in South Korea and the Chinese to go to Formosa.

At the time of presentation of our final position we would have Bohlen make a simultaneous confidential approach to Molotov at Moscow and seek to elicit public statements of support from our Allies. The decision to drop the present position on unanimous action by the commission would involve relationships with the Congress since this position was adopted in consultation with Congressional leaders.

The decision to drop the present position on the immediate release of Korean POWs involves further decisions on possible alternative concessions that might be made to Rhee and action that we must be prepared to take if Rhee openly breaks with the UNC.

The politically most effective concession that we could make to Rhee would be to inform him of our willingness to negotiate a bilateral security pact. Such a security pact has very real political and military disadvantages which would have to be weighed against the need for securing Rhee’s cooperation with an armistice.

We have just received views of Clark, Briggs and Murphy on the efficacy of a unilateral statement by you in lieu of a commitment to negotiate a security pact. Because of constitutional and political considerations such a declaration would necessarily be couched in very vague and general terms. Clark, Briggs and Murphy seriously doubt efficacy of such a statement and urge we express to Rhee a willingness to negotiate a mutual security pact.

Any approach to Rhee can include an explanation of the safeguards against renewal of the attack inherent in the armistice agreement and the “Greater Sanctions” statement to be issued by the 16 countries fighting in Korea immediately upon conclusion of an armistice.

----- 각주 -----
[주1] According to a note attached to the source text, Smith did not sign this memorandum, but instead took it over to the White House to discuss it with President Eisenhower on May 19. It was drafted by Johnson. No record of the Smith–Eisenhower discussion has been found, but see telegram 249 to Dhahran, May 18, p. 1050.
