London, February 1, 1945—8 p.m. 
 [Received 11:10 p.m.]

1138. Cornea 169. My 1051 January 30, 8 p.m. reported a preliminary discussion by the European Advisory Commission of the United Kingdom proposal for control machinery in Austria.

My joint advisers [주50] in collaboration with General Flory, [주51] Colonel Carey, [주52] Mr. Cecil Gray [주53] and others of the nucleus United States Group Control Council for Austria [주54] have made a preliminary study of the British proposals and I am submitting their recommendations for consideration by the Department in connection with any comments which it may be preparing on the United Kingdom draft. The nucleus United States group expects to have the opportunity to submit their recommendations to General McNarney [주55] at an early date.

The nucleus United States group for Austria feels that the British proposals do not sufficiently take into account the basic difference in objectives between the occupation of Germany and the occupation of Austria. The machinery to be set up in Austria should be designed to provide the most effective means of accomplishing the overall objective of welding the Austrian people into a united, free and independent state as set forth in JCS 1024 of August 27 [주56] and approved by the President.

A comparison of the British proposal for Austria with the agreement on control machinery in Germany [주57] shows that the British give [19면] greater prominence in their Austrian proposals to the role of the Allied Commanders as members of the Allied Council in Vienna than as Commanders in Chief of their national forces in their zones. However, it is questioned whether the British draft goes far enough in emphasizing the necessity for uniformity of action through centralizing military government control in the Council.

The nucleus United States group for Austria feels strongly that bearing in mind United States overall objectives in Austria and the small size of the country the problems of any part of the country are of common interest and should be dealt with according to a joint policy; and that it is not enough to provide that the Allied Council will only handle “matters affecting Austria as a whole”. Such a provision would leave the way open for any one commander to block joint action in any matter which he alone decided did not affect Austria as a whole.

[Here follow detailed amendments to the British draft plan for Allied Control Machinery in Austria.]

I should appreciate having the Department’s reaction to these suggestions as soon as possible for my guidance in early meetings of the Commission. I should also like to have the Department’s views on the interim arrangements for Allied control between the occupation of Vienna and the coming into force of the proposed agreement.

Please furnish paraphrase to Generals Hilldring and Strong.

Winant

----- 각주 -----
[주50] The Political, Military, Naval, and Military Air Advisers to the United States Representative on the European Advisory Commission (Winant) constituted the Joint Advisers of the U.S. Delegation, E.A.C., which periodically held meetings to consider E.A.C. matters.
[주51] Brig. Gen. Lester D. Flory, Deputy to the Commanding General, Mediterranean Theater of Operations, U. S. Army (McNarney) and Acting Deputy, U. S. Group, Control Council (Austria).
[주52] Col. G. R. Carey, Executive Officer, U. S. Group, Control Council (Austria).
[주53] Cecil W. Gray, Counselor of Mission in the Office of U. S. Political Adviser on Austrian Affairs (Erhardt).
[주54] The U. S. Group, Control Council (Austria), was established on January 30, 1945, to serve as a nucleus planning staff for U. S. military government in Austria. Originally set up in London, U.S.G.C.C. (Austria) moved to Caserta, Italy, at the beginning of April 1945.
[주55] Lt. Gen. Joseph T. McNarney, Deputy Supreme Allied Commander, Mediterranean Theater of Operations, and Commanding General, Mediterranean Theater of Operations, U. S. Army.
[주56] Not printed; J.C.S. 1024, August 27, 1944, contained memoranda PWC–218 and PWC–217a (see footnote 27, p. 5), and comments of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on these memoranda ( Foreign Relations, 1944, vol. i, p. 463).
[주57] For text of the agreement between the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union on control machinery in Germany, signed in London, November 14, 1944, see Conferences at Malta and Yalta, p. 124; Department of State, Treaties and Other International Acts Series, No. 3070; United States Treaties and Other International Agreements, vol. 5 (pt. 2), pp. 2062–2071.
