15 January 1945.

[Here follows a list of references to previous military messages dealing with the United States Group, Control Council.]

1.

In furtherance of the above references and prior to the dissolution of Supreme Headquarters, AEF, [주25] and in conformity with approved policies promulgated by the European Advisory Commission, your mission is:

a.

To develop for approval by the Commanding General, ETO, [주26] detailed plans for:

(1)

The organization, personnel and equipment requirements of the United States element of the Control Staff (Germany).

(2)

The long-range requirement of army, navy and air disarmament, demobilization and related staffs to be employed in the US zone after the occupation is complete.

b.

To act as the Theater Commander’s agent in carrying out liaison with the US advisors on the European Advisory Commission.

c.

To develop for approval by the Commanding General, ETO, policies consistent with approved US views with respect to Germany which will serve as the basis for US conversations as provided below:

(1)

Conversations with the United Kingdom and USSR elements of the Control Staff looking to the establishment of policies [172면] on the Control Council level for application in Germany upon assumption of control by the Council.

(2)

Conversations with the British elements of the Control Staff with the view to developing recommendations to the Supreme Commander on matters affecting the control of Germany during the period subsequent to defeat or collapse but prior to assumption of control by the Council.

d.

To assist the Berlin District Commander (Designate) in the preparation of plans for phasing into Berlin and for the administrative support of the US Group Control Council.

e.

To prepare plans for initial functioning of US elements of the Control staff introduced into Berlin during the SHAEF period.

f.

To furnish an analysis of the British, United States and Russian views with respect to the control of Germany by the Control Council and to determine:

(1)

Known points of agreement between the three powers.

(2)

Points on which it is clear that some reconciliation of views is essential together with details of the differences and recommended solutions.

(3)

Points on which policy is required and on which early steps must be taken to secure guidance from higher authority. These should be accompanied by a recommendation of the policy to be adopted.

2.

In the preparation of plans and policies directed herein you will coordinate with staff divisions of SHAEF, the Commanding General, USSTAF [주27] and the Commander U.S. Naval Forces Europe or with the Berlin District Commander (Designate) as appropriate. You should make the maximum practical use of the facilities afforded by the Civilian Federal Agencies represented in the Theater. Within the provisions of references 3 and 5 above, you should give such planning assistance as appropriate to Twelfth Army Group and subordinate headquarters designated by them.

3.

In preparing the plan called for in 1 a (1) above, you will:

a.

Comply with the provisions of reference 4 above. [주28]

b.

Be governed by the principles established in reference letter 6 above.

c.

Consult with the US elements of the appropriate staff division of SHAEF and nominate from personnel available in this Theater a list of officers to be designated by the Commanding General, ETO, to fill key positions in the US element of the Control Staff.

4.

The date when combined command will be terminated cannot now be foreseen. Your plans, however, should take into account as possibilities: [173면]

a.

Termination of combined command simultaneously with, or subsequent to, the establishment of the Control Council in Berlin.

b.

Termination of combined command some time prior to establishment of the Control Council in Berlin.

5.

In furtherance of para 5, GO 80, Headquarters, ETOUSA, dated 9 August 1944, [주29] you will submit reports at least once a month on the status and progress of the plans called for above.

By command of General Eisenhower: 


W. B. Smith

Lieutenant General, US Army,
Chief of Staff

----- 각주 -----
[주24] Transmitted by the United States Political Adviser for Germany (Murphy) in his despatch 99, January 29, 1945; received February 8. The United States Group, Control Council (Germany), was established in August 1944 to act in close liaison with similar British and Soviet groups in preparing for the post-surrender military government of Germany. General Wickersham served as Acting Deputy to the chief U.S. representative on the Control Council and was in charge of organizing the U.S. Group. For documentation on U.S. participation in the Control Council, see pp. 820 ff
[주25] Allied Expeditionary Force
[주26] Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, who was at the same time Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Force (SCAEF)
[주27] U.S. Strategic Air Forces
[주28] Cable W–58895, from the Joint Chiefs of Staff to General Eisenhower, dated November 7, 1944, not printed, concerned with the composition of the US Group, Control Council (Germany)
[주29] Not printed; paragraph 5 specified the manner in which the Acting Deputy (Wickersham) of the US Group, Control Council would make progress reports and recommendations for personnel and equipment (740.00119 Control (Germany)/1–2945)
