London, April 20, 1945—9 p.m. 
 [Received April 20—7:45 p.m.]

4078. Cornea 224. Under date of April 14 Norwegian Foreign Minister Lie has addressed a letter to Chairman, European Advisory Commission, raising certain questions regarding Norway’s relationship to the instrument of unconditional surrender for Germany. Full text by air. [주62] Summary begins:

Norwegian Government requests that full text of instrument be submitted to it, instead of summary, as a basis for adequate expression of its observations thereon.

Norway feels that imposition of terms “in the interests” of the United Nations other than the principal three powers leaves doubt regarding position of other United Nations towards Germany and may be source of juridical and political conflicts. Lie feels terms should state that in principle all United Nations are entitled to same rights towards Germany. Allies who have made valuable contribution to common victory should take part in notifying terms of surrender to the Germans. In case of Norway publication of special terms to German forces in Norway should be done by authority of Norwegian as well as of the three Governments. Lie draws attention to proposal contained in annex A, attached to his letter of September 2, 1944, [주63] to EAC chairman, that a Norwegian plenipotentiary should take part in notifying terms of surrender to German forces in Norway. Letter goes on to propose special terms (1) to concentrate in camps German forces and civilians found in Norway, (2) to prohibit destruction of [235면] any object in German possession in Norway, and (3) to hold prisoners of war and displaced persons in camps pending orderly repatriation and asks whether these special matters should be covered in annex to the instrument or in special terms to be notified to the Germans in Norway.

With regard to the “additional requirements” to be imposed on Germany, Norwegian Government hopes to participate in the preparation of these joint demands and in presenting them to Germany in its name and not merely “in the interests” of the United Nations. Norwegian Government would like information about the composition and activities of the Allied Control Commission and the Reparation Commission, with opportunity to present its own observations. It also wishes further an early discussion with the Allied Consultation Committee of the EAC. End of summary.

Winant

----- 각주 -----
[주62] The full text of Foreign Minister Lie’s letter of April 14, 1944, to the European Advisory Commission, which was designated by the EAC as document P12H/6/45, was transmitted to the Department in despatch 22570, April 21, 1945, from London, neither printed (740.00119 EAC/4–2145).
[주63] Not printed; for a summary of Foreign Minister Lie’s letter of September 2, 1944, see Foreign Relations, 1944, vol. i, p. 73.
