No. 148

Luxembourg, April 23, 1945.
[Received April 30.]

Sir: I have the honor, at the request of the Prime Minister, [주65] in the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to enclose for the earnest consideration of our Government a note which the Grand Ducal Government of Luxembourg is transmitting in accord with the Belgian and Netherlands Governments to the American, British and Soviet Governments.

I am not translating this into the English language in view of the fact that as it is being transmitted in its present form to other Governments the Department will no doubt wish to have it in its original.

Respectfully yours,

George Platt Waller

[238면]

[Enclosure—Translation]

The Luxembourg Government to the American Legation in Luxembourg [주66]

Note

1. In deference to a desire expressed by the Luxembourg Government, the Chairman of the European Advisory Commission, [주67] in a letter of December 12, 1944, [주68] was good enough to invite a Representative of the Luxembourg Government to establish contact with a Committee appointed by the Commission. This Representative obtained from the Committee information regarding the Act which will establish the capitulation of Germany, without, however, receiving the text of that Act itself because of its chiefly military character. He was, furthermore, given the opportunity to enter upon an exchange of views concerning the matters relating thereto and offering a special interest for Luxembourg.

The Luxembourg Government deeply appreciated the decision which permitted it thus to get in touch with the European Advisory Commission and it thanks the latter for the courteous reception given by it to the Representative in question. It feels it its duty, however, to invite the attention of the Government of the United States to two important points concerning which it has not obtained all the clarification and satisfaction that it desired.

2. According to the summary of the Act of Capitulation of which the Luxembourg Government has received a copy, the Representatives of the High Commands of the United States of America, Great Britain and the Soviet Union, in formulating the terms of capitulation, will act “in the interests of the United Nations”; whereas, in the armistice with Italy, the High Command acted “on behalf of the United Nations.” The Luxembourg Government is aware of the reasons which determined this change of wording; nevertheless, it deems it necessary that the significance thereof be exactly specified, so as to avoid any future ambiguity and to prevent the enemy from attempting to deduce, therefrom an erroneous interpretation favorable to his interests. It is the understanding of the Luxembourg Government that the fact of saying that the obligations to be imposed upon Germany are formulated by the High Commands acting in the interests [239면] of the United Nations, places upon Germany obligations with respect to each of the United Nations in the same manner as if it were expressly stated that the High Commands acted on behalf of the United Nations. The Luxembourg Government believes that it is thus correctly interpreting the capitulation terms.

The Act of Capitulation, although it has an essentially military character, will constitute, perhaps for a quite a long period, the very basis of the rights which Luxembourg will be in a position to invoke with respect to Germany. It is, therefore, from this Act itself, as well as from the injunctions which, according to the provisions of Part III, will subsequently be imposed upon Germany, that Luxembourg must derive its rights. Among these injunctions, a considerable number will offer particular importance for Luxembourg. It would be inconceivable, under these conditions, that Luxembourg should remain for several years in a doubtful position and without a direct claim as regards Germany.

3. Part III of the Act of Capitulation refers to the injunctions of a political, administrative, economic, financial, etc., character which will hereafter be addressed to Germany. It is in this field that action might be taken on the suggestions formulated by the Luxembourg Government in the memorandum which it addressed on August 26, 1944 to the European Advisory Commission [주69] and which refers particularly to remedial measures for spoliation carried out in an occupied country, to restitution and prestations in the economic, monetary, maritime and cultural fields, to the control of enemy property, rights and interests, and of industrial, commercial, etc., property, to the control of imports and exports, etc. The Committee [주70] with which the Luxembourg Representative [주71] has been in contact has not hitherto been able to furnish any clarification in this matter, the European Advisory Commission not having yet completed its examination of these points. The Luxembourg Government feels it its duty to emphasize the considerable interest which they present for it. The concrete provisions which form the subject of Part II of the Act of Capitulation have an essentially military character and therefore concern primarily the Powers which are directing military operations. On the contrary, the provisions referred to in Part III present a very special importance for the States which, like Luxembourg, have for several years been completely occupied by Germany and subjected, under cover of that occupation, to the systematic exploitation of their resources.

[240면]

The Luxembourg Government does not doubt that the Government of the United States of America will give to its Representative on the European Advisory Commission the necessary instructions in order that the exchanges of views which have taken place hitherto with the Luxembourg Representative may be continued as soon as possible with regard to the questions which have just been mentioned.

----- 각주 -----
[주65] Pierre Dupong.
[주66] The reply to this note was made in note from the Acting Secretary of State to the Luxembourg Minister, July 2, 1945. The note stated: “It is the view of this Government that the Luxembourg Government as a United Nations Government with a major interest in the control of Germany should be represented at the Control Council by a military mission.” (740.00119 EW/4–2345)
[주67] At that time, Fedor Tarasovich Gousev, the Soviet Representative on the European Advisory Commission.
[주68] Not printed; see telegram 11080, December 14, 1944, 8 p.m. from London, Foreign Relations, 1944, vol. i, p. 84.
[주69] Not printed; for a summary of the Luxembourg memorandum, see Foreign Relations, 1944, vol. i, p. 70.
[주70] i.e., the Allied Consultation Committee.
[주71] Luxembourg Foreign Minister, Joseph Bech.
