Washington, March 19, 1945.

A–89. In their instructions to SACMED the Combined Chiefs of Staff have kept in mind that there will ultimately be Inter-Allied [28면] administration of Austria, and that the planning of individual Army commanders entering Austria should look forward to this.

CCS have now prepared two pre-surrender proclamations for use by any of their forces upon entering Austria, and, having the foregoing in mind, they have endeavored to draft them in such a way as to make them suitable for use by Soviet troops also, if desired. The name of the French Government will be inserted in them in the event of its participation.

In consultation with General Deane, and in concert with the British Ambassador, who will receive similar instructions, please inform the Soviet Government that we propose to place these proclamations in the hands of SACMED for issuance by any of his forces that enter Austria, and express the hope that the Soviet Government will consider it desirable to have their own forces also issue them or substantially similar proclamations.

Please report the decision of the Soviet Government, together with any comment it may wish to make.

Text of the two pre-surrender proclamations follows:

Draft Proclamation Number 1

“To the People of Austria:

Pending the establishment of an Allied Commission for Austria by the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America, and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, I, (here insert description), hereby proclaim as follows:

1.

The Allied Forces enter Austria as victors inasmuch as Austria has waged war as an integral part of Germany against the United Nations.

2.

Nevertheless, the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics have in the Declaration on Austria issued at Moscow on the 1st November 1943, affirmed their agreement that Austria shall be liberated from German domination and their wish to see her re-established in freedom and independence. In this declaration Austria was, however, reminded that she has a responsibility which she cannot evade for her participation in the war, and that in the final settlement account will inevitably be taken of her own contribution to her liberation.

3.

Austrians now have the opportunity to contribute to the liberation of their country by rendering full cooperation by word and deed with Allied Forces and agencies and by affording them all possible assistance and support against the Hitlerite German oppressors.”

Draft Proclamation Number 2

“To the People of Austria:

Pending the establishment of an Allied Commission for Austria by the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America, and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, I, (here insert description), hereby proclaim as follows:

Article I

In all areas of Austria occupied by my forces we shall destroy German militarism and the German war machine and overthrow the [29면] Nazi rule, dissolve the Nazi Party and abolish the cruel, oppressive and discriminatory laws and institutions which the party has created. We shall pave the way for a free and independent Austria.

Article II

All German control of Austria is abolished. Your political ties and obligations of obedience to the German Government are hereby terminated. Persons complying with any proclamations, orders, ordinances or other instructions which may hereafter be issued by or under authority of the German Government will be punished fully and promptly.

Article III

Supreme legislative, judicial and executive authority and powers within the territory occupied by forces under my command are vested in me as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces and as military governor. Military government is established to exercise these powers under my direction. Any organization or individual failing to render full cooperation by word and deed with the Allied military and other authorities or failing to comply with any proclamations, orders, ordinances or instructions that may be issued under my authority will be punished fully and promptly.

Article IV

All officials and persons except those suspended or dismissed by the military government are charged with the duty of remaining at their posts until further orders, and obeying and enforcing all orders or directions of military government or the Allied authorities. This applies also to officials, employees and workers of all public undertakings and utilities and to all other persons engaged in essential work. All other persons should continue to pursue their normal occupations. The Order Police (Ordnungspolizei) and the Criminal Police (Kriminalpolizei) will be held responsible for the maintenance of law and order.

Article V

All Austrians not guilty of oppression, crimes or wrongs under the Hitlerite German tyranny will, provided that they conduct themselves peacefully and obey the Allied military and other authorities, be able to help in creating a free and independent Austria.”

Acheson

----- 각주 -----
[주79] In his telegram 1183, April 16, 1945, 10 a.m., the Ambassador in the Soviet Union reported that the draft proclamations for Austria had been communicated to the Soviet Government on April 15 (740.00119 Control (Austria)/4–1645).
