Washington, January 5, 1945—8 p.m.

17. Eacom [주21] 41. With reference to our 10317, December 9, 1944, midnight, [주22] the following expression of views of the Joint Chiefs of Staff concerning “Acceptance by the United States of a zone of occupation in Austria” has been received:

“There are no military objections to any occupation of Austria by U.S. forces.

“Should it be decided, for reasons other than military, to have U.S. forces occupy a zone in Austria, an area bounding on Bavaria would be preferable, particularly from a logistical point of view. In this connection the zone in northwestern and western Austria proposed for U.S. occupation by the Soviets is acceptable except for Ost-Tirol. Since the only road or rail communications through Austria from Ost-Tirol to the remainder of the country are through the province of Kärnten it is considered that Ost-Tirol should properly be included in the same zone with Kärnten. Assignment of zones in the Vienna area should insure adequate administrative and transportation (water, rail and air) facilities to all three occupying forces. The Soviet proposal appears to provide each zone with the necessary rail facilities but practically all of the municipal and federal headquarters are located in the Innere Stadt which is included in the Soviet zone. It is believed that the Innere Stadt may have to be divided among the three powers perhaps by the adjustment of proposed boundaries. The U.S. zone in Vienna must extend sufficiently beyond the city limits to provide adequate air facilities for U.S. forces within the zone.

“Acceptance of the Soviet proposal will not increase the number of U.S. forces remaining in Europe for at least the first year after hostilities cease, since availability of shipping will preclude their earlier withdrawal. After that time, the exact strength and duration of the U.S. commitment will depend upon Austrian reactions and future political decisions, which cannot now be determined.”

The Department concurs in these views and, accordingly, you are authorized to accept the Soviet proposals, subject to the modifications set forth above. [주23]

Stettinius

[4면]

----- 각주 -----
[주21] Series designation for telegrams to London relating to European Advisory Commission matters.
[주22] Foreign Relations, 1944, vol. i, p. 478.
[주23] According to the minutes of an informal meeting of E.A.C. held on Tuesday, January 9, 1945, Ambassador Winant stated that the United States was willing to accept a zone of occupation in Austria but with the reservations outlined in the telegram above (Mosely EAC File).
