[Washington,] March 22, 1945.

The Sub-committee has agreed upon the following interpretive paragraphs of the Presidential directive of March 10, 1945:

“1. The Inter-Allied Military Government shall be established in Germany pursuant to the international agreement on control machinery for Germany and the principles stated in the instrument of unconditional surrender.

“2. Every effort shall be made to reach agreement in the Control Council on matters of policy. The authority of the Control Council shall be paramount throughout Germany and its agreed policies shall be determinative throughout the zones. The respective zone commanders, in the exercise of their authority shall act subject to such agreed policies, shall see that such agreed policies are carried out within their respective zones, and in the absence of agreed policies, shall exercise their authority in a manner consistent with the principles set out herein.

“3. The Control Council, in those matters as to which it may determine central administration to be desirable, may use or provide central administrative machinery and agencies which shall have such powers, exercise such functions and use such channels of communication as the Control Council may direct. Subject to any agreed policies of the Control Council all persons and administrative agencies acting within the zones shall perform their duties under the supervision of the zone commander. The Control Council and the zone commanders, respectively, subject to agreed policies of the Control Council may make use of such Germans and such administrative agencies staffed by Germans as they may deem necessary within their respective spheres of authority but no Germans or administrative agencies shall be employed except in accordance with the policies for the purge of Nazism set forth below.”

The following final paragraph to paragraph 3 was submitted by the Treasury representative for discussion—it was not definitely adopted by the Sub-Committee for recommendation to the Committee:

“Subject to such decisions as may be reached by the Control Council on the desirability of using centralized instrumentalities, military administration shall be directed toward the promotion of the decentralization of the political structure of Germany and to this end local, municipal and regional organs shall be strengthened to the extent possible.”

[469면]