Washington, April 17, 1945—5 p.m.

341. Subject to the approval of the British Government, the Combined Chiefs of Staff have concurred in Marshal Stalin’s suggestion that American, British and French representatives proceed to Vienna to study the question of the zones of occupation in Vienna. Instructions are accordingly going forward through military channels to the British and American Commanders at AFHQ, Caserta, to the following effect:

CCS have already sought directly the British Government’s approval which will be communicated to the Department of State by the British Embassy when received in Washington; the Department has requested the views of the French government through Ambassador Caffery in Paris; the American Government has already approved the plan on the premise that the Allied representatives will study on the spot the factors bearing on the problem of zoning in Vienna and will report the facts as they find them there, together with their recommendations, to their respective governments and their representatives in the European Advisory Commission; and that the final agreement for zoning in Vienna will be made by the governments through the European Advisory Commission. When the views of the British and French governments have been received in Washington the Commanders of the British and American elements at AFHQ will then be instructed through military channels to proceed or send representatives to Vienna.

With reference to the Department’s 330 April 14, 7 p.m. [주39a] suggesting that you accompany the American military representative to Vienna, please coordinate your activities there with Ambassador Winant. You have already received his no. 85, April 15, 11 p.m. [주39b] giving you background information regarding the present status of Austrian planning in the European Advisory Commission. Please keep him fully informed and report both to him and the Department the situation as you find it in Vienna, with special reference to factors bearing on the zoning of Vienna, to facilitate his negotiations in EAC where the final inter-governmental agreement on zones will be made.

You will be informed as soon as the views of the British and French Governments have been received.

[72면]

Repeated to London as Department’s no. 2996; to Paris as Department’s no. 1528, and to Moscow as Department’s no. 896.

Stettinius

----- 각주 -----
[주39a] See footnote 24, p. 61.
[주39b] The same as telegram 3865 to the Department, p. 65.
