Paris, April 18, 1945—3 p.m. 
 [Received 6:43 p.m.]

1935. The substance of the Department’s 1512 April 16, 6 p.m. was communicated to Chauvel. [주40] He said that he had received a telegram yesterday from Massigli indicating that Stalin’s suggestion had been discussed by the European Advisory Commission. Massigli reported that there were considerable differences of opinion in the EAC as to the zones in Vienna between the Russians on the one hand and the Americans and British on the other.

He said that the following three points of dispute had arisen:

(1)

The Americans and British wash to have the so-called inner city declared an international zone. Whereas the Russians wish it to be a completely Russian zone.

(2)

Insofar as the airfields in the Vienna region are concerned, the Russians wished to turn over only one unsuitable airfield for the use of all the Allies while keeping the other fields solely for the Russians.

(3)

The question had arisen as to whether Allied troops other than Russian, would be confined to their own zones in Vienna or whether they would be able to proceed into the country districts outside Vienna and from one zone and [to?] another within Vienna. The Russians according to Massigli expressed the opinion that troops should be confined to their own zone.

Chauvel then went on to say that the differences of opinion were already so considerable in the European Advisory Commission in London that “the British are not sure that any useful purpose will be served in sending representatives to Vienna which is completely controlled by the Red Army and where freedom of discussion might be more limited than in London”.

According to Chauvel, the French position insofar as sending representatives to Vienna is that if the British and ourselves send representatives the French “will certainly wish to send a delegation also”. On the other hand, if either the British or ourselves do not send a delegation, the French will be inclined not to send one at this juncture.

Thus far the French have not organized an “Austrian team”. Today, however, General Koeltz is being requested to designate some of [73면] the military staff of his German Planning Mission [주41] to be earmarked for Austria. Chauvel added that no “political representative” had as yet been selected by his Government.

In conclusion he stated that the French decision on sending representatives to Vienna would depend largely on the British and American decisions and on reports from Massigli in London.

Repeated to London as 234, Moscow as 50, Caserta as 33 for Erhardt.

Caffery

----- 각주 -----
[주40] Jean Chauvel, Secretary General of the French Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
[주41] French equivalent of the United States Group, Control Council (Germany) and, like it, concerned with planning for the occupation and control of post-surrender Germany.
