Washington, April 17, 1945.

I have just received a letter from Mr. Eden [주9] referring to the text of messages number 920 and 921 from the Prime Minister to President Roosevelt concerning a joint proposed Anglo-American Soviet warning to the effect that individual prisoner of war camp commandants and guards no less than the German authorities will be held individually responsible for the safety of prisoners of war in their charge.

[705면]

In his message number 725 [주10] President Roosevelt informed the Prime Minister that if Marshal Stalin agreed he would go forward with Mr. Churchill in issuing the warning contained in the Prime Minister’s message number 921.

Marshal Stalin has now sent a message to Mr. Churchill, a copy of which I enclose, in which he agrees it is necessary to issue a joint warning in the name of the three governments and that he has no objection to the proposed text submitted by Mr. Churchill. Marshal Stalin also expresses the view that the warning should be signed by the three heads of government. Mr. Churchill has replied in a message, a copy of which is also enclosed, in which he expresses his agreement that the warning should be signed by the three heads and properly timed. Mr. Churchill also states that he is asking Mr. Eden to discuss the details with me and Mr. Molotov.

May I have your permission to discuss this matter with Mr. Eden and Mr. Molotov with a view to having everything in readiness for the publication of the warning at a moment to be determined? [주11]

E. R. Stettinius, Jr.

[Enclosure 1]

Extract of Message From Marshal Stalin to the Prime Minister, of April 14th

I also agree that it is necessary to issue a joint warning in the name of the three governments about safety of prisoners in the hands of Hitlerite Government. I have no objection to text of warning which I have received from you. Would you be good enough to let me know whether or not signatures are necessary under warning. Please also let me know about day and hour of publication.

[Enclosure 2]

Extract of Message From the Prime Minister to Marshal Stalin, of April 16th

With regard to warning, it should surely be signed by us three and also be properly timed and I am telling Mr. Eden to clear the matter with Mr. Stettinius and I hope Mr. Molotov in Washington.

[706면]

----- 각주 -----
[주9] Not printed.
[주10] See footnote 8, p. 704.
[주11] Marginal note: “Approved 4/18/45 Harry Truman.”
