Washington, April 19, 1945—8 p.m.

3077. The War and Navy Departments have now considered and approved, through the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee, official U.S. views regarding control machinery for Austria, following the JCS consideration of them mentioned in Department’s 2927, April 14, 7 p.m. [주49]

The Committee has approved both (1) a control machinery draft prepared in Washington, the text of which is identical with Annex “A” to the Appendix to SWNCC 30/1 transmitted to you with the Department’s third person instruction 5310 of April 6, except for deletion of the word “naval” from Articles 2, 3, 4 and 6 thereof, and (2) a commentary on the British draft, the text of this commentary being [77면] identical throughout (without exception) with Annex “B” to the Appendix to SWNCC 30/1 transmitted to you with the Department’s instruction 5310 of April 6.

The Committee, representing the views of the JCS as well as the State, War and Navy Departments, has approved, and requested that you be given for your guidance in presenting the American views in EAC, both (1) the draft prepared in Washington, and (2) the commentary on the British draft, referred to above, and also the following instructions:

Supplementing the Department’s telegram Eacom [주50] 40 of November 22, 1944, [주51] authorizing you to proceed to negotiate a proposal for control machinery for Austria on the basis of the German control machinery modified appropriately for Austria, without awaiting a specific American draft for that purpose, you now have in addition, our comment on the British proposal, and also a draft for control machinery for Austria which has been prepared for your guidance in presenting this Government’s position.

We assume that you will continue the discussion of control machinery for Austria in an effort to obtain the most suitable agreed formula that it is possible to achieve in the light of these and our previous comments, for submittal to the Governments for final approval. To this end you may use as a basis for presenting American views in EAC the substance of either (1) the American draft referred to herein (which we prefer), (2) the original protocol for German machinery, or (3) the British draft for Austrian machinery in the light of our comment on it and the American draft, or (4) a combination of all three.

We wish to cause no unnecessary delay in the negotiations arising from any technicalities that might be involved in formal presentation of this new draft to EAC.

Stettinius

----- 각주 -----
[주49] Not printed, but see footnote 30a, p. 64.
[주50] Series designation for telegrams to London dealing with European Advisory Commission matters.
[주51] Foreign Relations, 1944, vol. i, p. 468.
