Aide-Mémoire

It appears to His Majesty’s Government clear from telegram Naf 916 [주13] from the Supreme Allied Commander in the Mediterranean that the German Commander in Chief in Italy has no intention of surrendering his forces at the present stage on terms acceptable to the United States Government and His Majesty’s Government.

2.

Under the circumstances His Majesty’s Government feel that there is no object in any Allied representatives remaining in contact with German emissaries in Switzerland. Having regard to the effect which this matter has had upon the Soviet Government, His Majesty’s Government therefore regard it as essential that all contact should at once be discontinued.

3.

If the Department of State agree with this it is therefore suggested that the Combined Chiefs of Staff might be invited to send the necessary instructions to Field Marshal Alexander that all contact [758면] with German emissaries from German Head Quarters should be broken off. [주14]

Washington , April 14, 1945.

----- 각주 -----
[주13] This telegram from Field Marshal Alexander, April 12, to the Combined Chiefs of Staff and the British Chiefs of Staff reported on developments in the surrender negotiations since he had recalled his representatives on April 4. In subsequent discussions between German officers and various intermediaries in Switzerland and Northern Italy, the Germans had asked to see a copy of the instrument of surrender they were to be expected to sign, and they had expressed anxiety over finding a form for the surrender which would adequately maintain the appearance of military honor. Field Marshal Alexander had informed them that the instrument of surrender could only be seen at appropriate Allied headquarters. (Microfilm copy obtained from Department of the Army files.)
[주14] In a memorandum of telephone conversation, Washington, April 16 not printed, John Hickerson, Deputy Director of the Office of European Affairs reported a discussion of this aide-mémoire with Roger Makins, Counselor of the British Embassy. Mr. Makins said that “an approach in the same sense as the memorandum had been made to the United States military authorities by the British Chiefs of Staff and that we should also know that there had been a ‘top level’ approach in the same sense.” (740.00119 EW/4–1645) Cf. Harry S. Truman, Year of Decisions (Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, 1955), p. 200.
