Paris, April 20, 1945—9 a.m. 
 [Received 1:07 p.m.]

1972. As a result of military developments it was decided at SHAEF [주52] on Monday [주53] that a SHAEF handbook and directive for [78면] Austria covering a two or three months’ period of SHAEF occupation there would have to be prepared within a few days. This program is based upon the assumption that control will be handed over to SACMED at the earliest possible moment and in any case before the Control Council for Austria commences to function. We were asked to consult on the preparation of the directive. While explaining that Erhardt was the appropriate political officer to consult on this matter, in view of the urgent nature of the talk we sent Knapp [주54] to SHAEF (forward) [주55] where the draft was done. The following is a summary of the issues which arose and of the action taken. The SHAEF directive referred to below is a draft which Knapp was given upon arrival.

1.

The directive forbids fraternization with the civilian population. We suggested that such fraternization “should not be encouraged but need not be prohibited unless you (the military commander) decide otherwise”. SHAEF G–1 [주56] however, remains in favor of an initial policy of non-fraternization.

2.

The SHAEF directive left Italian displaced persons in Austria to be handled by the Austrian authorities along with other enemy nationals. The question was raised of whether these should not be assimilated to nationals of the United Nations but the SHAEF officers stated that they had no instructions from JCS or CCS on this point.

3.

The directive left German displaced persons, a category which was not defined, to be handled by the Austrian authorities. Agreement was reached on a definition of enemy displaced persons as any enemy nationals who came to Austria after Anschluss and among the statement of objectives was included the phrase “to repatriate German nationals at the earliest opportunity”. The SHAEF officers were not prepared, however, to accept direct military government responsibility for the care and reparation [repatriation?] of these persons.

4.

The directive contained provisions which would have frozen all church property in Austria and would have subjected financial transactions of the churches to close control and report requirements and in particular would have enjoined the churches to maintain their assets substantially intact. In view of the delicate problem of the Catholic Church in Austria and of the role which it may play in welfare activities deletion of these provisions was suggested and agreed upon.

5.

The directive was seriously lacking in any statement of positive economic objectives. A number of changes and additions were agreed [79면] upon including a new item in the statement of general objectives worded as follows: “You will take such steps as may be feasible to stabilize economic conditions and will support efforts by the Austrian authorities to restore production, trade and employment”.

6.

The directive took a very rigid line with respect to relief imports, providing that they should be called for only to prevent disease and such disorder as might endanger or impede military operations. Efforts to obtain a relaxation in this formula were met by insistence that the supply position could not possibly support any more generous treatment. Agreement was reached, however, upon opening the supply section of the directive with the following language “in view of the critical shortage of transport and stocks you will conform to the following policy”. It is believed that this provision will make clear to plan commanders that the level of imports is determined on supply rather than on political grounds.

7.

A proposal that the directive should contain a positive injunction to promote foreign trade was rejected on the ground that this was not appropriate for the very brief period of SHAEF responsibility.

A copy of a more detailed report on these negotiations is being forwarded by air pouch. [주57]

Sent Department as 1972, repeated to AmPolAd, Caserta for Erhardt as 34.

[Murphy]

----- 각주 -----
[주52] Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force.
[주53] April 16.
[주54] J. Burke Knapp, Assistant Adviser on Austrian Affairs, then on a visit to Europe.
[주55] SHAEF forward headquarters located at Reims, France.
[주56] Maj. Gen. Ray W. Barker, Chief of the Personnel Division of the General Staff of SHAEF.
[주57] Despatch 284, April 24, and enclosure not printed.
