Washington, April 21, 1945.

My Dear Doc: With reference to our conversation on April 19th about Austria, we have now heard from London that the Prime Minister has decided, in the circumstances, not to send a message himself to Stalin on this subject. Instead, instructions have been sent to His [82면] Majesty’s Chargé d’Affaires in Moscow to approach the Soviet Government through normal channels.

2. I enclose a paraphrase of the instructions which have been issued to Mr. Frank Roberts. [주60]

Yours ever,

Roger Makins

[Enclosure]

Paraphrase of Instructions sent to His Majesty’s Chargé d’affaires in Moscow on April 21st

His Majesty’s Government have learned with pleasure of the statement made by Marshal Stalin to Mr. Harriman that, now that Vienna had been captured, it was urgently necessary to settle the respective zones in Vienna, and of the proposal that United States, British and French Governments should send their officers at once to Vienna to work out the necessary arrangements on the spot.

2.

His Majesty’s Government gladly accepts this proposal and welcomes the statement issued by the Soviet Government on April 8th affirming that the Soviet Government stands firmly by the Allied declaration issued at Moscow in 1943.

3.

Besides working out in Vienna the division of the Vienna zones and airfields, it is urgent that the four powers should arrive at an agreed policy in regard to the establishment of interim control machinery for Austria and that the representatives on European Advisory Commission should be instructed to settle this latter question without delay.

4.

There are other important political and economic questions which will arise in Austria. His Majesty’s Government are sure that the Soviet Government will agree that our common purpose might well be prejudiced by unilateral action on the part of any one of the occupying powers in regard to the removal of industrial plant and equipment regardless of whether or not this was German owned, or the elimination without regard to their attitude towards the Nazis, of Austrians who might be useful in re-establishing Austrian administration and economy. His Majesty’s Government propose therefore that representatives to be sent to Vienna should be empowered to deal with such questions and that the Soviet Commanders on the spot should meanwhile be instructed to hold their hand. His Majesty’s Government would also urge the importance of taking all possible steps to maintain Austrian agriculture in full production.

[83면]

----- 각주 -----
[주60] British Chargé in the Soviet Union.
