[Washington, January 1, 1945.]

Economic Treatment of Austria

Summary

The United States is committed to the political objective of a free and independent Austria. Stable and prosperous economic conditions in Austria would provide a strong underpinning for political independence and encourage support from the Austrian people for a separate Austrian sovereignty.

From the moment of occupation it will be necessary to commence the reconstruction of the Austrian economy. The tripartite military government should at once undertake the eradication of German economic [7면] influence in that country as well as the denazification of economic life. It must provide some substitute for German economic administration and should sequester all Reich German properties in Austria and administer them on behalf of the eventual Austrian Government. It should take steps to establish financial autonomy, including an exchange of currency and probably the payment of interest on the public debt. Within its capabilities it should attempt to revive civilian production in order to avoid large-scale unemployment and to satisfy essential requirements. Finally it should encourage the revival of Austria’s foreign trade and if necessary bring in relief supplies of foodstuffs and perhaps materials for the rehabilitation of Austrian industry.

Most of the longer-range economic problems in Austria can be dealt with effectively only when an acceptable indigenous government comes to power. In the settlement of occupation costs Austria should bear the cost of all expenditures incurred in the country by occupying forces and should be charged for the value of the relief imports. On the other hand, it should be credited for the amount of troop pay spent in the country. It is recommended that Austria should neither pay nor receive reparation. Payments by Austria would threaten its economic viability, while Allied claims to German reparation will be so large that Austria cannot be allotted a share. By the same token, Austria should not obtain any compensation from Germany for German currency, public debt, etc., held in Austria. The Allied powers should assist the eventual Austrian Government in a long-range program of economic and financial reconstruction, in particular by helping it to obtain foreign markets and credits. Austria should be admitted eventually to any world economic organizations that may be formed (including the World Fund and Bank). In addition the major Allied powers may have to make loans to Austria justified on political rather than commercial grounds.

----- 각주 -----
[주28] Included in the “Yalta Briefing Book” which had been prepared for the background information and policy guidance of President Roosevelt and the American delegation in their discussions at the Malta and Yalta Conferences (January 30–February 11, 1945). For documentation regarding the Malta and Yalta Conferences, see Foreign Relations, The Conferences at Malta and Yalta, 1945.
