[Versailles ?] April 12, 1945.
[Received April 20.]

Dear Jimmy: You may be interested in the attached secret memorandum of April 11 prepared by Major General Lucius Clay together with a chart which sets forth his latest thinking on the organizational features of the American side of Military Government in Germany.

There is also enclosed the final draft [주30] of a paper setting forth the outlines of the relationship between the Joint Theater Staff and the US Group Control Council (Germany) when Combined Command has terminated.

All of this has come to a head with the arrival here of General Clay coincident with the visit of Jack McCloy. I must say that I do not detect a movement anywhere to detract from the over-all authority of the Control Council in favor of the Zonal Command.

It will be noted that General Clay has devised the title of “Deputy Military Governor” and in that capacity he would be in charge under the Commanding General (General Eisenhower) and the latter’s Chief of Staff (Lieutenant General W. B. Smith) of all Military Government [934면] features on the American side including the American Element of the Control Council and G–5 of the Zonal Command as well.

There appears to be as yet no final determination who will be designated to serve as the American member of the Coordinating Committees under the Commanding General.

All the best to you,

Yours ever,

[Robert Murphy]

[Enclosure]

Memorandum by Major General Lucius D. Clay

[Versailles ?] 11 April 1945.

1.

A chart is attached [주31] herewith which shows the relationship of the Deputy Military Governor and the US Group Control Council to the Theater Staff which has been accepted in principle and is to be worked out in detail.

2.

Under this arrangement the Deputy Military Governor would be adviser to the Chief of Staff and the Commanding General for Military Government within the US Zone of Occupation. For those functions pertaining exclusively to Military Government he would work directly through the G–5 Staff Divisions with the several command echelons.

3.

In his capacity as Deputy to the Commanding General, he would represent the latter on the Coordinating [Committee of the?] Control Council, and would sit in all important meetings of that Council. He would be in direct charge of the US Group, assisted by a deputy who would remain constantly in Berlin.

4.

In the initial stages the work of the Group Council will necessarily be devoted to developing working arrangements between the several Zones of Occupation. These working arrangements will undoubtedly be expanded and enlarged until some over-all governmental control machinery has been effected. As this takes place, the center of gravity of government may be expected to shift from the several Zones to Berlin. The proposed arrangement is sufficiently flexible to permit this shift. Moreover, it provides at the same time for full coordination between the Zone and the Group Council in Berlin.

5.

G–5 Sections would continue their present responsibilities for the staff supervision of Military Government functions and would take over as military needs decrease functions now resting in other Staff Divisions. As an example, G–4 is now pushing war production in Germany. As the need for production for war ceases, the responsibility for controlling production for other purposes in the plants now devoted to war production would shift to G–5.

[935면] 6.

Civilian personnel will be brought gradually into the G–5 Staff Divisions, which would be built up to become operating units if and when the governing of Germany shifts from military to civilian control.

7.

Eventually, when responsibility for government is shifted to civilian agencies, the Deputy Military Governor, the Group Council, and the G–5 Sections could be carved out of the military command, leaving the latter intact to provide a complete framework for continued control of German government.

----- 각주 -----
[주30] Not printed; for a report on the paper issued April 29, 1945, by Headquarters, European Theater of Operations, United States Army (ETOUSA), defining the relationship of the Deputy Military Governor and the US Group, Control Council (Germany) to the Theater Staff, see despatch 351, May 10, from Mr. Murphy, p. 938.
[주31] Not printed.
