As the Task Force was only 100 miles from BORODINO Islands
a sweep of 4 VFN was sent over MINAMI DAITO airfields.
Only four aircraft were seen on the field and these together
with a few small craft were heavily strafed.
The Logistic Support Group was met the following morning
(22 March) and a very busy day was spent fueling,
provisioning, replenishing ammunition, and receiving replacement
aircraft and pilots. The Task Force was reorganized
into three groups for the commencement of
--6--
operations against OKINAWA. Ships were moving everywhere.
The British Liaison Officer on the Staff of Commander Task
Force 58, reported officially, "that it was during this
first replenishment period that he became fully aware of
the versatility, power and efficiency of the United States
Pacific Fleet."
(b) Task Force 58 Air Support Operations at OKINAWA (23 March to 1 April 1945)
Initial air operations against OKINAWA and adjacent islands,
including KERAMA RETTO, commenced 9 days before the date of the
main landing. These operations took the form of extensive
bombing attacks of all known installations including coastal
batteries and were designed to prepare the are for mine sweeping
operations and the landing on KERAMA RETTO. In addition,
complete photo reconnaissance coverage was accomplished and
delivered to the amphibious commands just prior to their landings.
On 23 March at 0028, an enemy submarine was rammed and
sunk by the USS Haggard
while operating as a unit of Task Group
58.4. On 24 March, the fast battleships carried out an effective
bombardment of the Southeastern Demonstration Beaches on
OKINAWA. Also on this day Task Group 58.1 destroyed an enemy
convoy consisting of 3 medium AKs, 1 DE, 1 Chidori TB and 3
other escorts which were located 150 miles Northwest of OKINAWA.
The operations of all forces involved proceeded smoothly and
according to plan. Enemy air opposition was non-existent and
it became increasingly apparent that our initial strike on
KYUSHU facilities had interfered with enemy air operations to
a greater extent than had been hoped for.
(c) 6th and 7th of April
The expected all-out effort by the Japanese on both the
beaches and the supporting forces finally developed on the 6th
of April. Until then the Task Force as a whole had been worried
but little, but from dawn on the 6th it was apparent that the
Japs meant business. Seven shadowers or possible suiciders
were shot down during the forenoon, and at 1245, an intermittent
attack developed on the two Task Groups present which were
58.1 and 58.3. This attack continued for the rest of the day.
The Cabot,
in Task Group 58.3, had a very close shave with a
suicider which skimmed over her deck, but missed; two cruisers
were also near-missed by bombs and altogether about 30 aircraft
were shot down in the proximity of the Force. Task Group
58.1 had three carriers near-missed. One carrier, the
San Jacinto,
was slightly damaged. One destroyer, separated from
--7--
the Force as a linking vessel between the Task Groups and the
picket destroyers, was hit by a suicider and had to be detached
from the Force. The radar picket group of destroyers again had
a field day--one destroyer alone shooting down three suiciders
while their CAP shot down six enemy aircraft. The Task Force
fighter combat air patrols over OKINAWA, and fighter sweeps and
patrols over the islands to the Northward, had a very hectic
time and altogether between the two Task Groups 249 airborne
planes were destroyed, of which Task Group 58.1 claimed 136 over
OKINAWA, and Essex
nearly broke the carrier record by her aircraft
shooting down 65 aircraft in the course of the day. Our
own losses in air combat totaled 2 for the day as against
236 for the enemy.
During the night of 6-7 April, one of our submarines on
patrol off BUNGO SUIDO Channel [the southeastern entrance to the
Inland Sea--between Kyushu and Honshu--featured in
Run
Silent, Run Deep --HyperWar] reported an enemy surface force
headed Southward. All Task Groups were ordered to concentrate
to the Northeast of OKINAWA. Search aircraft, 40 VF in units
of four, were launched at dawn, searching between 336 and 056
degrees to a depth of 325 miles and at 0822 an Essex search
unit made the first enemy report of one battleships, probably
Yamato Class, two cruisers and eight destroyers in position
31°-22'N, 129°-15'E., course 300°, speed 12 knots. (The
contact report was expeditiously received via VHF using two link
units at 100 and 200 miles). A tracking and covering force of
16 fighters were launched at 09156 and they were followed at 1000
by the strikes of Task Groups 58.1 and 58.3, and 45 minutes
later by Task Group 58.4. The original intention was for all
Task Groups to launch together, but Task Group 58.4 could not be
ready in time. Hancock's air group (12 VT, 15 VB and 24 VF)
was 15 minutes late on taking-off, failed to join up and
subsequently did not find the enemy. (For plot of
enemy track
and attack, see enclosure (D)).
Altogether the numbers of aircraft launched in the main
strike were as follows:
TG 58.1
TG 58.3
TG 58.4
Total
VF
52
80
48
180
VB
21
29
25
75
VT
40
58
33
131
386
All Avenger (VT) aircraft carried torpedoes, the Helldivers
(VB) were armed with a mixed load of 1000-lb. SAP, GP,
and two 250-lb. GP, and the fighter aircraft with a 500-lb. GP
bomb as well as a long-range tank.
--8--
The launching position was latitude 27°-10'N, longitude
129°-30'E, approximately a distance of 240 mils to the estimated
position of the enemy fleet. A deathly silence ensued from
the shadowing aircraft which was not broken until 1030, when
the Force was reported to have altered course to the Northward,
and shortly afterward a search aircraft from OKINAWA made contact
and confirmed the enemy course. This plane shadowed the
rest of the day and did an excellent job. On the whole, shadowing
reports failed to ge through to the Task Force Commander
after that, but as it turned out, the strike leaders were soon
in touch with the shadowing aircraft, and the islands in the
track of the strike made the navigation problem simple. Final
homing was done on a SB2C radar
(APS-4)
which picked up the
enemy force at a distance of 32 miles from 6000 feet.
The enemy battle fleet was sighted in position 30°-34'N,m
128°-08'E, approximately 70 miles, 225 degrees from first
sighting report. The weather was poor with 8/10 cloud cover
at 3000 feet. The low ceiling and so many aircraft made the
attack most difficult to coordinate. Anti-aircraft fire was
heavy but inaccurate and a large number of both torpedo and
bomb hits were claimed on the Yamato, the one cruiser and three
destroyers by first two strike groups (58.1 and 58.3 in order).
The strike group of Task Group 58.4 arrived to find the Yamato
listing appreciably and hit her with many bombs and 6 torpedoes,
5 of them on the high side--the Yamato blew up. The CL
(Agano Class) which was found dead in the water was hit by
approximately four torpedoes and eight 1000-lb. bombs to help
her on her way to the bottom. Out of the original force of one
BB, one CL, and 8 destroyers, the Yamato, one CL, and
four destroyers were sunk, one destroyer badly damaged
(Terutsuki Class) and one left burning. Two destroyers were
apparently not seriously damaged. Our own plane losses were
light-- 4 VB, 3 VT and 3 VF. personnel losses were four pilots
and eight aircrewmen, the rest being rescued.
At 1210, while the strike was away, the Force was attacked
by a group of four aircraft, three of them were shot down on
their way in to the Force and the fourth broke cloud over the
center of Task Group 58.3 and was under fire for, at the most,
a minute before it dived into the Hancock, the aircraft and
accompanying bomb hitting the port side just aft of her forward
elevator. Both ends of her flight deck and the forward end
of her hangar deck were in flames immediately, and volumes of
smoke enveloped her. In the surprisingly short time of three-quarters
of an hour only thin wisps of smoke were visible--a
most impressive demonstration of her damage control
--9--
efficiency. Twenty-nine men were killed, about 35 missing and 71
wounded, but she was able to land her own aircraft on their
return at 1630. Although she was able to operate planes in an
emergency, it was necessary to detach the Hancock from the Force
for repairs. The radar picket line CAP had its high day of the
entire operation, shooting down 14 planes out of the total of
54 destroyed airborne during the day.
A search followed by a sweep of 32 VF armed with bombs was
launched the following day to finish the remnants of the Japanese
force. The search and sweep went to 325 miles but failed
to find them. One search Corsair located a downed pilot in his
boat and remained airborne for seven and one-half hours. This
is believed to be an all-time record for a Corsair with one 165
U.S. gallon drop tank, and demonstrates what can be done by a
pilot who understands how to operate his engine economically.
(d) 11th and 12th of April
At dawn on 11 April, Task Force 58 (less TG 58.4 away
replenishing), was concentrated to the Eastward of OKINAWA.
All indications pointed to a busy day. Support missions at