Bunker Hill
was hit by two
suiciders without any previous warning of any kind. Both planes
dove out of low clouds at a steep angle. The resulting fires
and damage were of a serious nature. The casualties, mainly
through asphyxiation, were 352 killed, 52 missing in action and
many more injured. About 300 men who were forced to jump overboard
or were blown overboard, were picked up by destroyers.
Commander Task Force 58 staff suffered the loss of 3 officers
and 10 men. Commander Task Force 58 and a skeleton staff
transferred to the USS Enterprise about 1500, 11 May.
During the course of the day 69 enemy aircraft were shot
down by the CAP, mostly in the vicinity of OKINAWA. Three enemy
planes were shot down by our AA and 2 suiciders which crashed
the Bunker Hill were destroyed.
(i) 13th and 14th of May 1945
During the night of 12-13 May, Task Groups 58.1 and 58.3
proceeded North to attack KYUSHU airfields. The attack plan
called for two full days and nights of sweeps, strikes and night
hecklers. The primary targets for all attacks were airfields
and air facilities.
During the approach, night heckler planes and a dawn target
CAP from the Enterprise did some very excellent work shooting
down a total of 12 enemy planes, 3 in the vicinity of the Task
Force and 9 over enemy territory. Although our approach and
position were obviously known to the enemy, no attacks were
experienced throughout the day of 13 May. Both Task Groups
carried out full schedules against assigned target areas,
amounting to a total of about 700 target sorties.
During the night of 13-14 May, Enterprise planes successfully
heckled all of KYUSHU and part of SHIKOKU. During the
night 4 planes were destroyed by night fighters and 1 by AA.
Task Force day attacks were resumed on KYUSHU at dawn on 14
May. At 0615, the Task Force was attacked by about 26 single-engine
planes. Six were shot down by AA, 19 by CAP and at
0659, one suicider crashed into the Enterprise putting her out
of operation.
--14--
--15--
This attack was a nerve-racking experience lasting until
0830. It was estimated that the enemy planes had passed the
Task Force well to the West at low altitude and they approached
from the Southwest. By so doing they avoided our radar picket
group to the Northwest of the Task Force. The attack was first
picked up by radar at a distance of 25 miles. Fighters were
immediately vectored out and the ensuing engagement required the
utmost in fighter direction and fighter pilot performance. It
is a great tribute to the fighter direction and the fighter
pilots that they were able to destroy 19 planes under existing
conditions with the enemy fighters and Judys individually ducking
in and out of the clouds. The Zeke which managed to crash dive
the Enterprise was subjected to very heavy AA fire from all
ships in Task Group 58.3 but by some miracle was not destroyed
although it was evident that the plane had been hit by 20 mm fire.
In site of the above interruption, the sweeps and strikes
were maintained on schedule throughout the remainder of the
day. The Task Force retired at sunset. Because of the loss
of service of the Enterprise, no offensive night operations
could be conducted to cover our retirement.
The results of these two days of offensive operations were
a total of 72 airborne enemy planes destroyed, 16 of them at
night, another 73 planes were destroyed on the ground and 167
probably destroyed or damaged on the ground. In addition,
VB/VT and VFB bomber strikes destroyed and damaged hangars,
ships, barracks and other installations, including several fuel
dumps at the following enemy airfields and bases: KANOYA,
SAEKI, OITA, NIYAKONOJO, TAMANA, KIKUCHI, ASHIYA, GANNOSHU,
KOKUBU, USA, IZUMI, TACHIARAI CHIRAN, OMURA, HITOYOSHI, KOCHI
AND MATSUYAMA WEST. KUMAMOTO aircraft factory was also bombed
and about 30% of the roof area was destroyed or damaged; however
photos taken indicated that the factory was probably
inoperative. No previous indication of this possibility had
been received form any source. Our own air losses for the two
days were 14 planes, (11 to enemy AA) 10 pilots and 7 aircrewmen.
Transcribed and formatted by Patrick Clancey, HyperWar Foundation