OKINAWA were abandoned, and all VT and VB aircraft were placed
in the hangar and debombed and degassed. Combat air patrols of
24 VF were kept over each Task Group and 12 VF over the Radar
Patrol Group (8 destroyers), 25 miles to the northeastward.
OKINAWA was given a target CAP of 24 fighters to augment their
own Corsairs--a hundred of which had been flown n a few days
previously but were not yet entirely operational--and a
further 24 were disposed over AMAMI and KIKAI, the islands approximately
100 miles to the Northward of our operating area. This
large force of fighters was staggered in height with the object
of giving defense in depth to both OKINAWA and the Task Force.
More fighters were available in the carriers to be launched as
the outer patrols of fighters became engaged. The weather was
favorable to the enemy in the forenoon with low cloud cover,
but broke and lifted, and by the time the attack commenced,
cloud base was t 4000 feet with 5/10 coverage.
The attack commenced at 1330 with a few single-engine aircraft
in the vicinity playing hide and seek with our fighters
amongst the clouds. Radar was giving warning but often all
that was known was that there were enemy aircraft over head.
The Task Groups were in the usual 5 VICTOR formation with the
carriers on 1500-yard circle, but a few ships were often seen
firing without the remainder being able to see the target. The
work of the AA Coordinator in Task Group 58.3, who was in touch
--10--
with the gunnery officers in every ship of the Task Group, was
of great value in passing out the necessary information, and
certainly proved his worth in this action. The Japs were ingenious
in their use of window, coming in singly, using cloud
and the sun, coordinating their dives very ably and obviously
aware of the deficiencies of present radar installations.
Plenty of practice was had by all in countering the suicide
type of attack--11 suiciders being shot down by ships' gunfire
of Task Group 58.3 without a ship being hit, although damage
was caused by near misses. The shooting was excellent--particularly
impressive was the quick sighting and opening of
fire and the rapid training and firing of Bunker Hill's five-inch
turrets, controlled by Mk 51 directors. Nevertheless the
suiciders once in their dive were persistent and took a lot of
punishment before being deflected from their targets, and as
there were about 9 misses within 100 yards of the bigger ships
of the group, it is apparent that the problem of the suicider
is not solved.
The attacks continued sporadically for the remainder of the
day, but fortunately were discontinued prior to dusk--the force
being undisturbed during this period. The total bag for the
day was 12 shot down by gunfire and 17 by fighters.
Several ships were damaged during these attacks.
Missouri
in Task Group 58.4 was hit by a suicider but suffered no
damage. Enterprise was near-missed by four suiciders which
pierced some of her forward tanks, caused one of her shafts to
vibrate excessively and damaged her power supply and radars.
Essex had a forward fuel tank pierced and one radar put out of
action. The destroyer
Kidd
was severly damaged by a direct
suicide hit and 3 other destroyers suffered some damage from
a bomb hit, suicide near miss and friendly five-inch AA
respectively. Enterprise and the four destroyers had to return
to ULITHI for repairs.
That night the enemy returned to the attack with shadowers
and torpedo aircraft which continued intermittently until 0200
on the 12th. During the cvourse of which 7 aircraft were shot
down by ships' gunfire and 11 more by night fighters. The night
attacks were mainly single or small groups of aircraft and were
badly executed and presented little threat to a well-maneuvered Force.
On the 12th of April the enemy shifted tthe main weight of
his attcks to the anchorages at OKINAWA and except for a short
attack on Task Group 58.1, the Task Force was left alone. The
--11--
defense plan was the same as for the previous day and the CAP's
at OKINAWA and over the islands to the Northward had a field
day--for the loss of 6 of our own aircraft, Task Force 58
fighters shot down 151 enemy aircraft, and 3 were shot down by
ships' AA fire. Only 1 suicider managed to penetrate into the
main anchorage. The enemy however, thwarted of their main target,
attacked the radar pickets around OKINAWA and one destroyer
was badly damaged. The old battleships to the Southwest of
OKINAWA were also attacked, the
Tennessee and
Idaho and 1
destroyer being damaged by suiciders. Task Force 58 was again
under attack the night of 12 April, but no damage was caused
and two enemy aircraft were shot down by AA fire, and [illegible] by VFN.
(e) 14th through 17th of April
On 14 April, Task Group 58.3 fueled while the other Task
Groups provided air support for OKINAWA and fighter patrols to
the North. During the afternoon the Force was attacked by
several small groups of enemy aircraft, making their approach
from variable altitudes. The destroyer picket line received the
brunt of this attack and the destroyer
Sigsbee was
seriously damaged by suicide planes. A total of 50 enemy aircraft were
shot down during the day by aircraft and an additional 12 planes
were shot down by AA fire, of which 10 were credited to the
Radar Patrol Group destroyers.
At 1315, on 15 April, a special fighter sweep consisting of
125 fighters was launched to make attacks on airfields on KYUSHU.
This attack was a complete surprise to the enemy and many
planes of all types were found on the fields. Twenty-nine
enemy aircraft were shot down, 51 were destroyed on the ground
by burning, and it was estimated that 67 aircraft were probably
destroyed or damaged by strafing and rockets. Ground installations
were also strafed and bombed, causing many fires. Our
losses were two planes to AA fire--both pilots were rescued
by Dumbo.
During the morning of 16 April VF sweeps were again launched
against Southern KYUSHU airfields in an effort to break up what
was obviously to be a major air attack by the enemy. These
sweeps shot down 17 enemy aircraft, destroyed 54 on the ground
and damaged 73 additional on the ground. In spite of this the
enemy was able to launch numerous attacks against our forces in
the immediate vicinity of OKINAWA, and against Task Force 58.
Attacks continued throughout the entire day and early evening.
No air support was supplied, all efforts being devoted to
fighter defense. During the course of the action the USS
Intrepid took a suicider on the flight deck, causing the usual
--12--
intense fires. During the early evening attacks continued by
were not effective. The Task Force score for the day was 155
enemy planes shot down, two of which were destroyed by VFN, 14
more shot down by AA fire, 55 destroyed on the ground and 79
damaged on the ground. Our own plane losses for the day were
9 planes and 6 pilots. Of the nine planes lost, 7 were to
enemy AA fire and 2 in air combat. An interesting feature of
the day was the destruction of three enemy aircraft by the VF
escorting the Dumbo rescue plane to KYUSHU.
During the night of 16-17 April and continuing until noon
on 17 April, the enemy continued his air attacks, but at a reduced
scale. Four enemy aircraft were shot down by night fighters,
31 by the Task Force CAP, 5 by AA fire and 14 by Task Force
58 fighters over OKINAWA. Our aircraft loss in combat was 1 plane.
(f) 18th of April 1945
The morning of 18 April was highlighted by the sinking of
a Japanese submarine by destroyers of Task Group 58.4 and Task
Group 58.1. At about 2330, on the night of 17 April, the
Heermann
(TG 58.4) had a surface contact that very shortly
developed into a sound contact in Lat. 26-42W, Long. 130-38E,
and immediately began depth charge attacks. The
McCord was
directed to assist and remained on the attack, and the
Uhlmann
(TG 58.4) joined temporarily but resumed her picket station
duties after making two attacks. Commander Destroyer Squadron
FORTY-SEVEN in the McCord led the attack, assisted by aircraft
at dawn, until relieved at 1030 by the
Mertz
(TG 58.4) and
Collett
(TG 58.1). This relief was ordered at 0700 due to the
fact that the McCord, and Uhlmann had expended most of their
depth charges. During the early morning several traces of diesel
oil appeared and underwater explosions were noted. After an
attack at 1312, the contact disappeared, a large oil slick
developed, and debris surfaced including material and wood with
Japanese markings and pieces of flesh.
(g) 4th of May 1945
Enemy air attacks on OKINAWA were resumed during the night
of 3-4 May. Task Force 58 VFN shot down 4 planes, 3 of them
credited to one night fighter pilot. The day air attacks were
all concentrated on OKINAWA. Task Force 58 VF operating as
patrols over the islands North of OKINAWA, and as combat air
patrol over OKINAWA, shot down 98 enemy planes. Our own losses
were 5 VF planes and 1 VF pilot.
--13--
(h) 11th of May 1945
At dawn on 11 May, Task Groups 58.3 and 58.4 were operating
about 90 miles East of OKINAWA. The Force had been shadowed
most of the previous night. Enemy planes were known to be
attacking OKINAWA. About 1000, the