3. The following brief accounts are some of the highlights of
Task Force FIFTY-EIGHT's accomplishments during the OKINAWA operations.
--2--
(a) 18 to 21 March -- Attacks on KYUSHU and Inland Sea
No bogies worried the Force during daylight on the 17th
of March. A scouting line of twelve destroyers was placed
thirty miles ahead, normal to the Fleet Course; these destroyers
split at dawn on the 18th into two groups and formed
two radar patrol groups, one 30 miles North and one 30 miles
to the West of the Task Force. A combat air patrol of at
least eight fighters for each radar patrol group was provided.
This CAP was controlled by the destroyers. Whenever an attack
developed the CAP was increased to 16 VF.
The first bogey was detected at 2145 on the night of
17-18 March and from then on the Force was shadowed continuously.
Two of the shadowers were shot down by the Enterprise
night fighters. Two submarine contacts were also attacked
by the destroyer screen.
At 0545 on the 18th of March, the first fighter sweeps
and CAP were launched from a position approximately 100
miles to the East of the Southern tipi of KYUSHU. These
sweeps consisted generally of about 32 fighters from each
Task Group. The sweeps were followed three-quarters of an
hour later by strikes from each Task Group of about 60 VT
and VB escorted by approximately 40 fighters. The VF sweeps
had as their objective the destruction of enemy aircraft,
both in the air and on the ground. The VB/VT strikes were
directed to destroy primary airfield installations. The air
plan of attack for the various Task Groups is shown in enclosure
(F). The Task Force Commander directives are contained
in reference (b).
As the air opposition over KYUSHU during the forenoon
was of a minor nature and not many aircraft were seen, the
afternoon strikes were ordered to attack targets further inland
which originally had been planned to be attacked on 19
March. This proved to be a profitable move and 102 enemy
aircraft were shot down by our sweep, strike, and search
planes and about 275 additional aircraft were destroyed or
damaged on the ground. Primary airfield installations suffered
heavily--excellent photographs being taken of the
damage incurred.
The enemy air reaction to our presence, 100 miles from
their coast, was slight in the number of aircraft employed,
but the attacks were conducted in an aggressive and determined
manner. Single enemy aircraft using cloud cover were
--3--
over the force and attempting what in some cases may have
been suicide attacks but were probably all well-pressed home
glide bombing attacks; many aircraft were shot down by heavy
and well directed gunfire, but nevertheless
Yorktown and
Enterprise were hit by bombs, and
Intrepid
suffered a near
miss by a twin-engine plane shot down by gunfire. Damage
to Yorktown was minor and the bomb that hit Enterprise
failed to explode; consequently, all carriers were able to
continue flight operations. It was a trying period, as
little, if any, warning was being given by the radars in
the Force, and t times the first indication of an aircraft
approaching was visual sighting by the close screen. The
picket destroyers were invaluable with their visual sightings.
The CAP shot down a total of 12 aircraft and Task Force
anti-aircraft fire splashed 21 more.
During the morning of the 18th, photo reconnaissance by
planes from Task Group 58.3 disclosed a large number of major
fleet units in the Inland Sea. Commander Task Force 58
decided to attack these units the following day with the
harbor installations at KURE and KOBE as alternate targets.
Fighter sweeps against intervening airfields on SHIKOKU and
Western HONSHU were to precede and follow these strikes.
The night of 18-19 March passed quietly. A night search
launched form the Enterprise reported the possibility of a
BB and CV leaving by the KII Channel but a subsequent dawn
search proved this report to be incorrect. The first sweep
was launched at 0525 and followed by the strikes. Task Groups
58.3 and 58.1 concentrated on warships at KURE, Task Groups
58.3 and 58.1 concentrated on warships at KURE, Task Group
58.4 on those at KOBE, and Task Group 58.2 on targets and
installations in the KURE Naval Air Depot Area. The Jap
Fleet was found at KURE and HIROSHIMA harbors. The attack
was only moderately successful, mainly because of the extremely
heavy and accurate AA fire encountered, one group
alone losing 13 aircraft over KURE. From photographs the
following damage to fleet units was assessed:
KURE - (Damaged)
-
1 Yamato Class BB--slight damage.
1 Ise Class BB/CV--several bomb hits.
2 CV--slight damage.
1 CVL--burning moderately
1 CA--Tone Class
1 CL--Oyodo--severe damage--burning badly.
2 DD--slight damage
KOBE - (Damaged)
-
1 CV--hull hit by 3 500lb. bombs.
1 CVE--hit by 5 500lb. bombs--severely damaged.
1 SS--slightly damaged.
--4--
In addition pilots reported probably sinking 1 SS and damaging
1 CVE and 2 SS, and sinking and damaging a considerable
number of merchant ships, coastal vessels and small craft at
various locations in the Inland Sea.
Shortly after the first sweep and strike had been launched
an attack developed, mainly on Task Group 58.2, which
was 20 miles to the Northward of the other groups. Franklin
and Wasp were hit. Franklin was hit half way through
launching her strike and burned fiercely; six enormous explosions
were seen when the ship was below the horizon.
Wasp, although hit by a bomb which exploded between her second
and third decks, put out the usual fire and was able to
work aircraft within an hour. Owing to a flooded boiler
room her speed was reduced to 28 knots. All Task Groups
then came under attack, the weather being perfect for the
enemy--a thin layer of 7/10 clouds at 2500 feet. Radar
again was unable to compete. At least six aircraft attacked
Task Group 58.3, all coming in at cloud level and diving
at an angle of 45 degrees; all six were blow to pieces, but
they were near misses. It was impossible to say whether
the aircraft were suicides or otherwise and, needless to say,
carriers were invariably their targets.
The AA gunnery was excellent. Perhaps gun crews were
inclined to open fire well out of range but no one attempted
to stop them as their fire was most comforting.
During the afternoon of the 19th the Task Force retired,
covering the Franklin and at the same time launching fighter
sweeps against KYUSHU airfields in order to disorganize any
proposed attack on the Force as it withdrew slowly to the
Southward. The sweep was successful in destroying fair
numbers of aircraft on the ground. The only attack on the
Task Force that evening, by about eight planes, wsa intercepted
80 miles away and five aircraft were shot down, the
others escaping to their bases. The total number of aircraft
claimed for the day,k shot down in the air by AA and
aircraft, was 97 planes with approximately 225 additional
aircraft destroyed or damaged on the ground.
No shadowing aircraft put in appearance during the night
of 19-20 March. At dawn on the 20th, the Franklin and the
majority of Task Group 58.2 were 40 miles to the North of
the Task Force and about 160 miles from the nearest enemy
base. At this time the Franklin was being towed by the
Pittsburgh
and making about 5 knots. Her rudder was jammed
hard over and was causing trouble.
--5--
After a moderately quiet day on the 20th, shadowers
again put in their appearance and at about 1630, Task Group
58.2 was attacked by about 15 enemy aircraft which approached
low and very fast and then split up for individual attacks.
Seven planes were shot down by fighters and seven
by ship's gunfire. Enterprise was hit by own forces' gunfire
and a fire developed which put her out of action for
flying operations, and destroyed 8 planes. The destroyer
Halsey Powell,
while clearing the side of the
Hancock, was
damaged by a plane which narrowly missed the Hancock. As a
result of this hit Halsey Powell was able to make only ten
knots, causing more delay in our retirement to the Southward.
by this time had managed to work up to 15 knots
under her own power and was gradually working to the Southward
of the Task Force.
More shadowers appeared at sunset, and the night fighters
which were airborne were unable to intercept them owing
to their radical maneuvers and intelligent use of window.
At about 2300, an unsuccessful 8-plane torpedo attack on
Task Groups 58.3 and 58.1 took place. Shadowing aircraft
continued to report our position during the night, although
three of them were shot down by AA fire.
At 1400 on 21 March, a large group of aircraft were detected
by radar 100 miles to the Northwest. Extra fighters
were scrambled and altogether 150 fighters were airborne
in a very short space of time. Twenty-four fighters from
Task Group 38.1 intercepted 32 Bettys and about 16 single-engine
fighters about 50 miles from the Force, and in a very
short while all the Bettys and all of the fighters had
been shot down for the loss of 2 of our own fighters. The
Bettys were seen to be carrying one small plane each
under the fuselage. These were subsequently identified as
Baka Bombs. This was the first known appearance of the Baka.