GENERAL

1. During the period covered by this report Task Force FIFTY-EIGHT,
under the tactical command of Vice Admiral MITSCHER,
operated in support of the amphibious forces of the FIFTH Fleet,
occupying and capturing OKINAWA and adjacent islands in accordance
with Com5thFleet's Operation Plan 1-45. This support took
the form of day and night strikes, sweep and search operations
against KYUSHU, the neutralization of enemy airfields and facilities
in AMAMI GUNTO and MINAMI DAITO, the supplying of day and
night CAP and close air support to the occupation forces commencing
18 March, 1945, and still continuing as this report is
written. Routine search operations by Task Force FIFTY-EIGHT
were discontinued on 9 April, 1945. (In this report all times
are minus 9 and all dates East Longitude).
--1--

2. This action report constitutes a general discussion of the
Task Force employment and accomplishments and a framework into
which should be fitted the more specific and detailed reports
of the Task Group Commanders. Enclosure (A) is a day by day
calendar of employment. Enclosure (B) shows the composition of
the various Task Groups at different stages of the operation and
the damage to ships of the Force. It should be noted that
although the Task Force sortied from ULITHI on 14 March with
four Task Groups, it was reduced by battle damage
(Franklin,
Wasp and
Enterprise)
on the 22nd of March to three Task Groups
and remained at this strength (except for the period 8 to 17
April when Task Group 58.2 was reorganized) the remainder of
the time. Commencing on 27 April, one Task Group was continuously
at a rear base for a 10-day period of upkeep and repairs,
leaving two Task Groups to furnish tactical and strategical
support to the amphibious forces. Beginning on 23 March, combat
air patrol and air support missions were furnished to the
amphibious forces with the exception of about five days when
weather prevented, and five days in May (13th to 18th) when the
two available Task Groups (58.1 and 58.3) attacked KYUSHU in
force for two days and replenished for two days. This was the
only period during which one or more Task Groups were not in
the immediate vicinity of OKINAWA. The schedule of replenishment
normally allowed Task Groups to refuel and replenish every
fourth day. This meant that during the period 23 March to 28
April, an average of two Task Groups were supporting OKINAWA
each day. From 28 April until 32 May, one Task Group was always
in support and two Task Groups on two days out of every four.
Due to the loss of the services of the Enterprise (19 March) the
VFN complement of Each CV was increased from four to six night
fighters. This enabled the Task Force to supply continuous night
CAP over OKINAWA from 25 March until the return of the Enterprise
on 7 April, as a unit of Task Group 58.2. The Enterprise was
damaged again on 11 April and had to return to ULITHI for repairs.
It is interesting to note that for two and one-half months the
Task Force operated daily in a 60-mile square area East of OKINAWA,
less than 350 miles from KYUSHU. This was necessitated by
the restricted area available and the necessity for being able
to cover AMAMI GUNTO airfields, intercept air raids before they
reached OKINAWA and still furnish air support to ground forces.
There was no other location from which all these things could
be done. It is a degrading reflection on the enemy submarine
service that they were unable to make us move or even threaten
our ships during this time.