Q. But if the attacks did come to the MARIANAS, it was intended to employ the fleet
from the beginning?
A. Yes, it was intended from the first that if your attack should be directed toward
MARIANAS we would have to use the fleet.

Q. Now, in coordination of the effort of the fleet and of the shore-based air, both of which
stemmed up to you, what means did you have for quickly coordinating the operations of the
two forces at SAIPAN?
A. Cooperation between the land-based air forces and the fleet was extremely difficult.
Because of the difficulty of communication, for the two commanders to meet on land was
practically out of the question. Staff officers were sometimes dispatched to joint meetings
and in some cases staff officers were sent from naval General Staff Headquarters to the
headquarters of the land-based air forces; but generally speaking, failure to maintain
close communication throughout was one of the main difficulties in the way of adequate
cooperation between the two forces. Our communication method had not been developed to the stage
where, for instance, surface units could intercept or receive messages from land-based aircraft.
One reason for the difficulty in communications was the low efficiency of communications equipment.

Q. Now, in connection with the SHO-GO Operations in the defense of the PHILIPPINES,
when did you estimate that our attack there would arrive, and did we arrive in advance of
your estimate and with what consequences?
A. I expected that your attack against the PHILIPPINES would commence around August or September,
and my expectations in that respect were correct; that is just about when the operations
did begin. In regard to the A-GO Operation, we expected the attack May; but the actual attack
came about a month later, in June. I stated that I expected your offensive against the
PHILIPPINES would commence around August or September; that is not to say that we were prepared
at the time to meet that offensive, for the reason that our forces, both Army and Navy,
had lost practically all their supporting aircraft at the various operations and it took
anywhere from four to five months to replenish the lost aircraft. Since the SAIPAN Operation
had taken place in June and July, we were not prepared to start the SHO-GO Operation before
October or November; but I felt that you would not wait that long, instead that you would commence
your operation against the Philippines around August or September.
--316--

Q. In the SHO-GO Operations again, what losses were you willing to take in the fleet against
what gains> In other words, what were you prepared to trade there--losses and gains?
A. As already stated, our Task Force and our air squadron were not ready for operation at the
time that your campaign began. We felt that to take the Task Force into LEYTE was to take
a big gamble; and while it would not be accurate to say that we were influenced by public opinion,
questions were beginning to be asked at home as to what the Navy was doing after loss of one
point after another down south, such as MARIANAS and BIAK. So, after having consulted
headquarters in TOKYO and having obtained their consent, it was decided to take this gamble
and to send the whole fleet into the PHILIPPINE Operations. A part of the fleet at the time
was in home waters. That was rushed south in a hurry to take part in this operation with
the rest of the fleet, and it was our plant that part of the fleet should be used in an endeavor
to draw your Task Force up north; but since without the participation of our Combined Fleet
there was no possibility of the land-based forces in the PHILIPPINES having any chance against
your forces at all, it was decided to send the whole fleet, taking the gamble.
if things went well, we might obtain unexpectedly good results; but if the worst should happen,
there was a chance that we would lose the entire fleet. But I felt that that chance had to
be taken.

Q. Was the use of the northern force, which you mentioned as a decoy, planned from the beginning
or was it a decision of the moment depending upon conditions present?
A. No, that was not a part of the basic plan originally laid down, but it was adopted when the
news came that landings had begun in LEYTE. It was not a part of the original SHO-GO
Operation Plan.

Q. About the middle of October, we were told that certain numbers of aircraft from Carrier
Divisions 3 and 4 were sent to FORMOSA to be land-based. What information was that based on?
What was the reason for that?
A. The reason for that order was that many of the pilots had not received sufficient training
and therefore, while they could take off from carriers, were not able to successfully always
get back to the carrier. THerefore, it was decided to order them to join the land-based force
at FORMOSA.

Q. What was Admiral KURITA's mission? Was it to destroy the American Task Force, or the transports,
or attack the beachhead? What specific mission; and, also, were there any restrictions placed
on him by you, whether specific or implied, as to what losses he could take there?
How far could he go in the operation?
A. Admiral KURITA's mission was complete destruction of the transports in LEYTE Bay.
In the orders there was no restriction as to damage that he might take. The situation was
that, on the afternoon of the 24th, the Second Fleet suffered considerable damage from your air force,
so they started to turn back while in the Strait. Thereupon I sent an order from the
Combined Fleet worded something like this: "Advance counting on Divine Assistance." The meaning
of that order was, while to does not appear in the wording of the orders, that damage could not
be limited or reduced by turning back, so advance even thought the fleet should be completely
lost. That was my feeling when sending that order; consequently I am safe in saying that the
Second Fleet was not restricted in any way as to the damage it might suffer.
The reason for my determination when sending that order was the fact that should we lose
in the PHILIPPINES operations, even though the fleet should be left, the shipping lane to the
south would be completely cut off so that the fleet, if it should come back to Japanese waters,
could not obtain its fuel supply. If it should remain in southern waters, it could not receive
supplies of ammunition and arms. There would be no sense in saving the fleet at the expense
of the loss of the PHILIPPINES. That was my reason for that order.

Q. Then why did Admiral KURITA turn back? What reason did he give in his report to you
for turning back and not having gone into the Gulf?
A. The Headquarters of the Combined Fleet at the time was located in JAPAN, and in this operation,
as in other operations, while the Headquarters of Combined Fleet indicates the general aim
in respect to certain operation plans, questions of detail are left to the local commanding
officers. It must have been that Admiral KURITA decided that to advance into the Gulf
from that point would not be productive of the results anticipated; consequently,
he decided to withdraw.

Q. Under the circumstances as they are now known, in your opinion what that decision of
KURITA to turn back a correct one?
A. Looking back on it now, I think that withdrawal was not a mistake. At the time I did not
have and Combined Fleet Headquarters did not have information regarding the details of
the engagement. Later, when we learned that Admiral HALSEY's Task Force was further south than
we thought it was, I believe that Admiral KURITA then would have been within the range of
air attack from your Task Force, so that it was not unwise for him to have turned back
at that time.

Q. You would not criticize his action now in turning back?
A. I would not criticize.