Q. (General Anderson) Do you mean by that, what the British call their Coastal Command
or Fleet Air Arm? The British used a Fleet Air Arm and also had a Coastal Command which
also worked very closely with the Navy; the Coastal Command was a part of the RAF.
A. I refer to the Fleet Air Arm. I believe that in ENGLAND there must be a corresponding
air force working with the Army; and then in addition, to have an independent land-based
air force such as your bombing forces would not be objectionable.

Q. (Lt. Comdr. Wilds) Do you have any further information or comment you wish to make
on the discussion we had yesterday afternoon regarding the termination of the war?
A. Continuing with the story of the meetings of the Supreme War Guidance Council,
there was no member of that Council who had any fundamental objection to terminating the war,
but there was some question raised as to whether or not all the terms of the
POTSDAM Declaration
would be acceptable to JAPAN. THe points upon which considerable discussion took place
were three: (1) the question of the Emperor's future position; (2) the question of disposition
of war criminals; and (3) the question of JAPAN's future form of organization. (Note by
the Interpreter: I think we have often translated the phrase as National Equality.)
On the first point, namely, the question of the Emperor's position, all the members were united
in their view that it should be maintained. On the question of war criminals, the desire
was expressed by some of the members that the Japanese Government should be permitted to
ferret out and try the war criminals; and as regards JAPAN's "future form of National
Organization", the desire was expressed that since the present organization of the country was
one based upon the deep convictions of the people we should be permitted to maintain the
present form. In other words, determination of the form that it should have in the future
should be left to the Japanese people and not, for instance, to a plebiscite organized by
Allied authorities.
These discussions took place on 9 August and as there was no agreement, a meeting was called
in the presence of the Emperor on the 10th at about 0230 in the morning; and the decision
was reached there that, subject to the condition that the Emperor's position should in no
way be affected, the term of the POTSDAM Declaration would be accepted.
After the meeting held in the morning of the 10th, our readiness to accept the POTSDAM Declaration
was transmitted to the UNITED STATES Government through the neutral Governments of
SWITZERLAND and SWEDEN. The official reply of the UNITED STATES Government was received
on the 13th, but we learned the purport of that reply from a SAN FRANCISCO broadcast on the 12th.
The Supreme War Guidance Council reconvened on the 13th and continued the meeting until late
at night, discussing the American reply.
On the question of the Emperor's position, the American reply made no direct statement but did
state that the powers of the Emperor and the Japanese Government would be subject to the
authority of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. The main point of discussion at
that meeting had to do with the Emperor's position, since it was the conviction of the Japanese
people that the Emperor was a living god above whom there could be no earthly being.
It was feared that the Japanese people would not readily accept the wording of the reply
which placed the Emperor in a position subordinate to that of the Supreme Commander of the
Occupation Forces. In practice, of course, it was readily understandable that such would have
to be the situation because, being the defeated power, it was understandable that our head
should have to be placed in a position subordinate to that of the representative of the
victorious powers; but the language as it was worded, it was felt, would be found difficult
to accept. So to overcome that difficulty, the suggestion was made that, would it not be
possible to have the orders and instructions of the Supreme Commander of the Occupation Forces
go directly to the Japanese Government and that those orders would be passed on by the cabinet
to the Emperor who, in pursuance of his constitutional right, would carry out the work
connected with the termination of the war. However, no conclusion was reached after those
discussions and the fear was expressed that, in view of the international relation obtained
at that time, the Allied Powers would not accept such a set-up. Therefore, another meeting
was held on the 14th in the presence of the Emperor which led to the decision to accept
the POTSDAM Declaration in its full form.
The Imperial decision to bring the war to a close was made by the Emperor himself without
suggestions from any other quarters. The words that he used on that occasion might be summed
up somewhat as follows:
"Continuation of the war does not promise successful conclusion no matter from what angle
the situation is considered. Therefore I have decided, without suggestions from anyone, to
order the conclusion of the war, as I cannot endure the thought of having to kill tens,
evens hundreds of thousands of my subjects, and moreover to have to be called the disturber
of world peace. moreover, it is extremely difficult for me to have to turn over to the Allied
authorities officers and men upon whom I have depended all this time as though they
were part of my own body. But I have decided to endure what is unendurable and to accept the
terms of the POTSDAM Declaration."
--322--
He closed his statement by saying that if necessary he would go to the radio and broadcast to
the people in addition to issuing the Imperial Rescript and he asked for the continued
assistance of the members of the council. It was a very moving scene. Of course, that is just
a bare summary of what the Emperor stated on that occasion.

Q. (General Anderson) For the purposes of the record, I would like to get the fundamental
or major reasons that dominated the thinking and the conclusion of this Supreme Council
that the war should be terminated? What were the factors, what were the reasons, the causes,
that were considered and weighted at the time the Supreme Council was debating and considering
the matter of terminating hostilities throughout that period? I think the first session
began in June, did it not? I want to know what the factors were at that time that caused
the Supreme Council to take up initially the matter of finding a solution to the termination
of the war. I also want to determine what the factors were that led to final decision to accept
the POTSDAM Declaration.
A. May I point out that the discussion of that question commenced some weeks before I
assumed command of the Naval General Staff; namely, that those discussions commenced somewhere
around the first of May. I was not a member of the Council at the time, so I cannot say
with authority; but since it was evident from the early part of the Spring that JAPAN's war strength
was begin very rapidly depleted, it is possible that the situation came to the Emperor's attention
and that he might have suggested to the Prime Minister or to some other member of the cabinet
that such discussion should begin. That is merely a possibility; definitely, I do not know.

Q. We were conducting at that time operations on the surface, we were making invasions,
moving ahead on the surface; but also by that time we had begun the air attack on JAPAN proper.
How would you list the relative importance of these various military operations in their
contribution to the decision on the part o the Supreme Council to surrender: (1) the air attacks
against the homeland proper; (2) the surface invasions; and (3) the threat of course of further
advances of our surface forces?
A. The fact that the Japanese Navy's surface units had been badly defeated was not generally
known in JAPAN outside of the services, so I think that your bombing against JAPAN proper,
together with our failure in the OKINAWA Operations, had a great deal to do with the
decision to cease hostilities. So far as the Navy's surface units were concerned, it was
realized that we couldn't expect much of our Navy once the PHILIPPINES were lost,
because of the fuel situation.

Q. You referred to the rapid depletion of military resources. Do you have an estimate
as to what form of force that we were employing against JAPAN contributed most toward the
depletion of JAPAN's military resources for the continuation of hostilities?
A. Cutting off of our supplies from the south, principally through the loss of shipping
bottoms and disruption of transportation facilities in general.