Q. Early in our conversation of yesterday afternoon, in discussing the causes of the loss
of the war, you mentioned the spiritual side of the people, that they were not told what they
should have been told. Will you develop more specifically what you had in mind?
A. Going back to the early days of the war, I believe that one of the reasons for the failure
of the people to be fully prepared for the later stages of the war was the fact that our
operations went extremely smoothly in the early period, especially HAWAII and the various
southern regions; and while our official announcements came one after another, victory after
victory, tended to get the people "victory-drunk" one might say, and it was difficult for
the people to get out of that stage, even after the war began to go adversely against us.
As I stated yesterday, I personally believe that the turning point of the war was the
Battle of MIDWAY; and at that time I believe that not only the Government and the two services
but the people also should have realized that the turning point had come and made up their minds
for the future accordingly. Notwithstanding, the general public got the impression that the
Battle of MIDWAY was an outstanding victory for us. Moreover, out withdrawal from
GUADALCANAL, although that marked a definite disadvantage for the Japanese forces,
was publicized as though it had been a grand and sublime operation and tactics on our part.
On the material side, although it was known from the start that there would be basically a shortage
in resources as the war progressed, the rapid depletion of what we had to start with was not
made known to the people as a whole. To be sure, individuals realized that there was a
shortage in activities with which they were directly concerned, that is true; but they were
not given a chance to find out the overall shortage that was increasing from day to day,
because that shortage was kept under cover as a national secret, and the people had no chance
to find out how bad the situation was becoming. Because of the failure of the people to acquire
such information, it was not possible for them to make up their minds to live out the slogan
that was adopted by the Government; namely, "100,000,000 people united and ready to die for
the Nation." They could not place themselves in a state of mind to carry out that in their actions.

Q. It is your belief, then, that the people should have been told the facts concerning the course
of military operations throughout the war?
A. Of course there were some things that the people could not be told from a standpoint of
concealing such certain facts from the enemy, so that it would not have been possible otherwise
to tell them everything; but certainly they should have been given a chance through acquisition of
more information, at least, to understand how the war was progressing. One of the things that
impressed me on your side was the fact that Ambassador Grew, after his return to WASHINGTON,
kept warning your people that JAPAN must not be held too lightly and that JAPAN's war strength
was very deeply rooted. On the contrary, the situation in JAPAN was that certain information
coming from your country would be used by our propaganda organs in just contrary fashion.
For instance, the fact
--320--
that more women were joining industry would be pointed out as an indication that your resources
were running low, both in material and manpower. In other words, the propaganda policy of the
two countries seems to have been just opposite.

Q. Yesterday you referred to your belief that military people should stay removed from politics.
By what means did the Japanese Navy create and influence national policy? How could the
views of the Navy concerning national policy have effect?
A. The official setup is that the Navy's opinion as to what the Government policy should be
or how it should be modified is all expressed through the channel of the Navy Minister.
That is the proper and set channel, and that is the way it should always be done.
It has been the tradition of the Navy that that channel should be followed and none other;
but during the war I think, to my regret, that that was not always followed, that there were
exceptions where individual officers endeavored to influence the Government in its establishment
of policy.
As I have already stated, the way in which the Navy could bring its opinion to be reflected
in Government policy was through the person of the Navy Minister. Throughout the war,
not only did the Emperor, but the Japanese people in general, feel the deep concern regarding
cooperation between the Army and the Navy. It goes without saying that smooth cooperation
between the two services was absolutely essential to success. However, as I stated yesterday,
the Army had great political influence and power so that in order to obtain that smoothness,
which I considered necessary, the only thing possible was for the Navy to follow the Army's
leadership. In that respect the position of the Navy Minister throughout the war was an
extremely difficult one; and while I find certain points in the steps taken by Admiral SHIMADA
as Minister of Navy, which I consider regrettable, at the same time I feel deep sympathy
for the difficult position in which he was placed.
I believe that the period during which Japanese Navy's influence was most effectively
exerted in Government politics was just before, during, and after the Russia-Japanese War.
The Navy Minister at that time was Admiral YAMAMOTO, (Gumbai), who in addition to being
a good sailor, was an excellent statesman and was able through his statesmanship to equip
the Navy in preparation for the war, to lead the Navy through the war by laying the
foundation for the successful operational plans.

Q. Using hindsight on the war, looking in retrospect on the war which was just ended,
how would you invest the Navy's resources in each of the following categories: (1) Carriers,
(2) land-based aviation, (3) surface combat ships? In what proportions would you invest
the resources available to the Navy?
A. In light of the actual material situation that we faced, I think that we should have
devoted more to land-based aviation. The fact is that we did have plans for strengthening
aviation, but the plan simply did not carry out. I think that we overstressed the importance
of battleships and need not have devoted as much attention to battleships as we did.

Q. Was a single, unified military service, combining the Army and Navy and Air, ever
discussed before or during the war?
A. I heard that there were some suggestions of that kind coming from the Army but I know
nothing of the details.

Q. Did such a suggestion ever come from the Navy?
A. It is my understanding that the Navy was always opposed to such a change. As an ideal,
it may be a good thing to combine the two services under one command which we might call
"Defense Force"; but as a practical question, especially under the conditions that prevailed
in JAPAN, such a step would have been quite impossible and would only have led to confusion.

Q. Will you discuss more specifically why it was impractical and, as General Anderson says,
whether it was considered inadvisable purely because the war was going on?
A. Of course the fact that the war was already going on was one of the factors, I should say;
but more fundamentally, if the two were to be combined into one service in JAPAN, the head
would probably have had to be an Army man. Under him there would have been created two sections,
the Army section and the Navy section; and with an Army man as Minister, it would have been
inevitable that the Navy section would have become a relatively weak service.

Q. In any discussions concerning a joint-forces set-up, was a separate air section,
combining Navy Air and Army Air, envisaged? What would the status of the air forces have been
under the proposal discussed?
A. Even should a single service be formed through the merger of the two services,
I believe that so far as the Navy is concerned, the Naval Air Force would have to be attached
directly to the Navy in order to effectively cooperate with the surface units. The situation,
I thin,, is very much as that which prevailed in ENGLAND: Although an independent air service
exists there, actually its cooperation with the Navy is so close that this independent
air service is independent only in name and I think actually could be termed a part of the
naval force. That I think is the ideal.
--321--