Q. Will you please enumerate those meetings and summarize the discussions and decisions reached?
A. I arrived in TOKYO in my new position May 19. Prior to that, I believe beginning in May,
members of the Supreme War Guidance Council had been discussing ways and means whereby the
war might be terminated. This so-called Supreme War Guidance Council is composed of six members:
The Prime Minister, War Minister, Navy Minister, Foreign Minister, Chief of the Naval General
Staff, and Chief of the Army General Staff. The meetings of this group were held on:
6 JUNE, the six members--in addition to the six members, there were numerous others present,
including Chief Secretary of the Cabinet, Chief of the Naval Bureau of Military Affairs,
also of the Army Bureau of Military Affairs, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and
Chief of the Cabinet Research Bureau--discussed what steps should be taken relative to
the prosecution of this war. The conclusion of that meeting was that unless some radical
measure could be adopted to arouse the people, the nation's war power was bound to decline
very rapidly. That is not to say that anyone there expressed the opinion that we should ask
for peace; for when a large number of people are present like that, it is difficult for any
one member to say that we should so entreat. So the decision was that something must be
done to continue this war.
Two days later on 8 JUNE, practically the same members held another meeting, this time in the
presence of the Emperor. There was no discussion but merely a report of what had taken place
at the prior meeting on the 6th. Independent of these official meetings of the Supreme War
Guidance Council, the same six members which constituted the Council were holding meetings
with the view to obtaining the services of Soviet RUSSIA at an opportune time. The Foreign Minister
was taking a leading part in this and the matter had already been presented to Ambassador
MELIK in TOKYO; and at the same time our Ambassador SATO in MOSCOW had been instructed
by the Foreign Minister to prepare the ground there for the dispatch of the special ambassador
for the purpose from TOKYO to MOSCOW. However, these negotiations, both in TOKYO and in
MOSCOW, made no satisfactory headway, and some 20 days passed after the commencement of
the negotiations, but nothing was accomplished.
On 26 JUNE, The Emperor called these six members of the Supreme War Guidance Council into
his presence and stated that, while it was of course necessary to keep on pushing this war,
it was necessary at the same time, in view of the domestic situation, to consider the possibility
of bringing the war to a conclusion. What did the members of the Council think of that idea?
In reply to the Emperor, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Navy Minister
stated that they concurred fully with the Imperial view and that such steps were now being taken
to that end. Then the Emperor in turn asked when the Ministers expected to be able to send
a special Ambassador to MOSCOW. The reply given was that the date was not certain but hoped that
he would be sent before the POTSDAM Conference should be held.
On JULY 10, the Emperor suddenly called our Foreign Minister and stated, "As it is now early July,
should not our special ambassador be dispatched to MOSCOW without delay?" The situation was
that the Russian Ambassador to TOKYO was reported ill and the Foreign Office was having difficulty
in maintaining contact with the Russian embassy here, so it was decided to send instructions
to our Ambassador in MOSCOW to propose to submit to the Russian Government our proposal
to send a special ambassador there. Our Ambassador SATO in MOSCOW approached the Vice Commissar
of Foreign Affairs with this proposal, and when asked, "For what purpose are you sending
the Ambassador--to ask us to intervene with a view to bringing about peace?", our Ambassador
replied that such was the case. That was about the 13th of July that this conversation took
place in MOSCOW, and the answer given was that since STALIN and MOLOTOV were both about to
depart for POTSDAM, they promised to give an answer upon their return to MOSCOW.
The actual answer that our Government did get from MOSCOW on 8 August was breaking of
diplomatic relations with JAPAN, that was the answer. Thus, our efforts to bring the war
to an end with the intervention of RUSSIA ended in a flat failure. There were only two people
in all of the Navy who had any knowledge of the discussions relating to intervention of RUSSIA;
namely, the Navy Minister and the Chief of the Naval General Staff. It may be that,
since frequent conferences were being held, some of the others high up in the Navy Department
might have had some suspicions; and because I, myself, felt that such might be the case,
I stated to my Deputy Chief of Naval General Staff that, although conversations were being
carried out relative to the conclusion of the war, that was not an affair with which officers
should be concerned. Only with the prosecution of the war should they be concerned at all,
for, for them to consider questions of peace would serve only to reduce their morale; and I
believe that a similar situation prevailed in the Army Department; namely, that only two officials
had definite knowledge of these discussions.

Q. Will you outline the principal points which it was intended would be the basis for seeking
peace through RUSSIA? What the terms should be?
A. What the terms should be, while it might have been in the minds of officials in the Foreign
Office, did not come up for discussion among us, principally because we thought that it was
a matter in which opinions of RUSSIA should be respected. By way of concrete terms, we of course
were prepared that, whatever the result, it would be worse than pre-war conditions.
--319--

Q. In effect, then, the Navy was in favor of peace whatever the basis?
A. At the time that peace discussion were taking place, of course we had not heard of the
POTSDAM Declaration; it had not
come out yet. We did not think, however, that the actual situation, if and when the war should end,
should be quite so stern as under the term of the declaration, and the same is true as regards
the CAIRO Declaration. We looked
upon that as a declaration but not as one whose terms would be actually applied to us.
By way of possibility of reducing these terms, if you should continue pushing the war,
we would demand of you the heavy sacrifice when your landing operations should commence
in HONSHU.

Q. At what time during the course of the war would the Navy have accepted an Imperial Rescript
terminating the war?
A. That is very difficult to answer because even on the 15th when the Imperial Rescript to
terminate the war was actually issued, even then we found it difficult to hold down the
front-line forces who were all "raring to go", and it was very difficult to hold them back.
I do not think it would be accurate to look upon use of the Atomic Bomb and the entry
and participation of Soviet RUSSIA into the war as direct cause of termination of the war,
but I think that those two factors did enable us to bring the war to a termination without
creating too great chaos in JAPAN.

Q. Perhaps my question was not entirely understood by you. I did not mean to direct it to
the loyalty of the Navy to the Imperial will, but to get an estimate based on a cold appraisal
of the course of the war. At what point in the progress of the war would the Navy have agreed
to and would have backed the issuance of an Imperial Rescript to stop the war?
A. It is difficult for me to say whether, apart from the intervention of Soviet RUSSIA,
if at any time prior to the actual termination of the war the Emperor had issued a rescript
terminating the wary, the Navy would have been willing to say that is not a mistake;
because so long as one feels that there is any chance left, it is very difficult to say
that the time to quit had already come.

Q. The Admiral referred to the Imperial Conference with the Supreme War Guidance Council
of 8 June. What was the Emperor's comment or reaction to the information you gave him at that time?
A. So far as I can recollect, there were neither comment nor questions from the Emperor.