Q. (Admiral Ofstie) Throughout the war were your positions such that you were fully informed
on the progress of the war, on the plans and policies under discussion in the Supreme Council,
Imperial Headquarters, by the General Staffs, etc.?
A. In the Japanese Navy, the commandants of the various fleets and the various Naval Stations,
while they received instructions from Central Headquarters regarding operations, are not
consulted on matters of fundamental policy; and, therefore, from the beginning of the war
I was not consulted on those matters by the TOKYO headquarters.

Q. I assume, however, that you were thoroughly familiar with the Japanese War Plan, their
National War policy for the Greater East ASIA War; is that correct?
A. I may be wrong as to the exact date, but I believe it was on 5 November 1941 that the
Commander-in-Chiefs of the various Naval Stations and minor Naval Stations were brought together
in TOKYO and were given an explanation regarding our plans for operations in the event of
war against the UNITED STATES. No opportunity was given us, however, to make any comments on
those plans or to suggest modifications.

Q. Admiral, would you say that in the preparation of the basic war plans there appeared to be
full understanding and agreement on the part of the Army as well as the Navy?
A. No. I regret to say that such was not the situation. Because the Army had great political
power, if the Navy were to endeavor to get all that it desired, it would encounter certain
difficulties. Such was the situation not only during the war but prior to the beginning
of the war.

Q. To go slightly further--as an example, when the basic war plan was changed and it was
decided to somewhat expand the immediate objective by going into the ALEUTIANS, SOLOMONS,
MIDWAY, was that change agreed to or given consideration by the Army and a satisfactory
accord reached?
A. Having been in KURE at the time, I was not in a position to have knowledge as to the Navy's
basic policy or the question of cooperation with the Army upon such points.

Q. But still, when a major change, such as the decision to go into the ALEUTIANS, to go into
the SOLOMONS and to PORT MORESBY, to land on MIDWAY, was made, surely such a matter would have
been rather widely discussed between the services, wouldn't it?
A. Of course, I think that discussion between the services on points of such importance took place
as a matter of course, but as I was not in TOKYO at the time, but in KURE, I do not know how
those discussions took place or were carried out. of course I had definite personal opinions
of my own regarding these questions when they were made known to me, but no chance was given
to me to forward such opinions to Central Headquarters.
--313--

Q. Admiral, what do you consider, just briefly, were the Japanese war aims?
A. I, of course had an opinion of my own as to what the war aims probably were. There was
undoubtedly other opinion on the part of the general public, and war aims as held by the
Government have been clarified; but I did not at any time give expression to what I considered
to be the war aim of our country. From my official position I made no statement regarding
war aims.

Q. What was your understanding of the Government's position as to war aims?
A. It is very difficult for me to give a definite opinion of my own as to what the Government's
war aim probably was for the reason that I feel now and felt at the time that the country could
have avoided the war if it had tried hard enough.

Q. What steps do you think might have been taken that were not taken that might have avoided
the war?
A. Our country needed at the time to avoid war, the presence of a strong and wise statesman
who could have led the country at the time.
There is great doubt in my mind as to whether the Government that was in power at the beginning
of the war should alone be held responsible for the war that the war started. I wonder whether
we should not go back farther, even to the Manchurian Incident when the situation in the country
became such that it was virtually impossible for the situation in the country as envisaged by
our EMPEROR to be made known to the rest of the World. I believe I understand the object of
your interrogation, but there is one point upon which I must secure understanding and that is
the fact that, from early days, it has been my conviction that soldiers and sailors should
not mix in politics; and that is, in fact, one of the important points brought out in the
EMPEROR's rescript to the military and Navy. That has always been my conviction, that nothing
can come from combination of political and military power in one and the same hands.
It was about the time that I became a Rear Admiral that the Manchurian incident broke out,
and ever since that time I have been telling my young officers my conviction on that point.
For that reason, although of course I have personal opinions regarding this war, I question
whether it would coincide with views of others. It probably would not, and for that reason
I doubt whether an expression of my personal opinion on the various phases of the war would
be of much value to you.

Q. From an earlier statement, however, I gathered that you felt the Army was very much in
politics, much more so than the Navy, if the Navy was at all. Is that correct?
A. I do not hesitate to state definitely that such was the case; namely, that the Army did
participate in politics and that is not a recent phenomenon. It goes back considerably
into the past. tracing as far back as the MEIJI era. I can see from the way in which the Army
played a part, even in the formation of the cabinets, that the political activity of the Army
went back many years into the past.

Q. In other words, the Army had a profound influence on national policies. It that a
correct statement?
A. I think so.

Q. Did that influence extend to a point where it had a direct effect upon naval operations;
such, for example, as pushing expansion in certain directions, using submarines to supply troops
in the field, use of naval strength primarily for objectives which the Army selected?
In other words, did they interfere with strictly naval responsibilities?
A. In the field of military equipment, I think we felt the effect of the Army's influence
to a considerable extent, but in matters of operations the cooperation between the two services
was quite satisfactory, with a few exceptions perhaps.

Q. In the early stages of the war, what was the opinion of the highest echelons as to the
probable major threat to the success of its plan? Was from forces in CHINA, was it the possibility
of the Russians coming into MANCHURIA, was it down in the AUSTRALIA-NEW GUINEA Area--the American
forces there--or was it the U.S. forces in the east, in the early part of the war?
A. Of course, as already stated, I had no part in the laying down of the war plans in central
headquarters, but I personally felt that our biggest objective was of course the American
Naval and Air Force.

Q. The threat from the east or from the southeast? This was at the beginning of the war when
a perimeter has been established and which JAPAN faced all the war around. At some point
there was possibly the greatest threat.
A. felt the biggest threat was the action of the American Navy coming across the PACIFIC.

Q. To what extent do you consider that operations of the Army in CHINA reduced or otherwise
affected JAPAN's ability to defend herself from the attack from the east which you mention?
A. Of course I do not know much about the Army as such, but I have always felt that it was a
great mistake to try to carry on, at the same time, war against the UNITED STATES and war
against CHINA on the Asiatic Continent; and I felt that we should liquidate the war with
CHINA even at some sacrifice.
--314--

Q. if the major threat, again, was from the American Navy from the east, then the major
responsibility for meeting that threat rested with the Japanese Navy. Is that a fair statement?
A. Yes, such was my opinion, and I believe that feeling was shared by the naval authorities
in TOKYO Headquarters; and I have heard that there were officers in our Navy who expressed
the opinion that around the time that the operations were being carried on around NEW GUINEA
that we could not carry out those operations with maximum success unless all the Japanese
aircraft, including those of the Army, were placed at the disposal of the Japanese Navy.