Q. Considering the operation as a whole--the movement of Admiral NISHIMURA's force through
SURIGAO and Admiral KURITA's through SAN BERNARDINO and the employment of Admiral OZAWA
in the north--what would you say was the primary cause for the lack of success in that operation?
--317--
A. Our weakness in air, and to that I wish to add the failure of the operation was due also to,
really a part of the same answer, the fact that the pilots under Admiral OZAWA were not
sufficiently trained.
One unexpected result of the decision to send the Second Fleet into LEYTE Gulf was the
appearance of the so-called Special Attack Air Corps. That is not to say that the Special
Attack Corps were organized then on the spur of the moment. The matter had been talked over
among members of air units, not only among staff officers but even among pilots themselves.
It had been under consideration because of the feeling that the method of special attack
was the only one likely to prove successful in view of the insufficient training which
most of these pilots had received. When the news came to the land air forces that the Second
Fleet was being sent into LEYTE Gulf, Admirals ONISHI and FUKUDOME, in command respectively
of the First and Second Air Fleets, decided that if the surface units are taking such
desperate measures we too must take similarly desperate measures, and started the first
operation of the so-called Special Attack Force. This was in some ways a somewhat unexpected
result from the entry of the Second Fleet into LEYTE. The First and Second Air Fleets
were at the time stationed in the PHILIPPINES.

Q. What were the basic reasons for the failure or success of that operation,
not the Special Attack, but the whole fleet operation?
A. The fact that we were drawn into the engagement before we were fully prepared, combined
with insufficient training of the fleet itself and air weakness as already pointed out.

Q. You mentioned the status of the Special Attack Forces there; what was their objective,
the destruction of what--ships or shore points? What was the purpose of the attack by the
Special Attack Corps?
A. The principal objective of the Navy's Special Attack Units was your aircraft carriers,
while the principal objectives of the Army Special Attack Units were your Task Forces when close
by, but more your landing points and transports.

Q. (Lt. Comdr. Wilds) You referred early in the conversation to the threat which you
considered our Navy represented from the east early in the war, after JAPAN had filled in
her perimeter. How would you evaluate that threat as between carriers, or surface fleet,
or amphibious operations?
A. Early in the war I think the submarines were the part of the UNITED STATES Navy which
I considered the greatest threat.

Q. Will you, then, elaborate as to the relative threat in your opinion that the carrier force
and the surface fleet and our potential amphibious capabilities represented?
A. In positive offensive operations, I agree that aircraft carriers are indispensable, and
in landing operations, even land-based air force is not sufficient without the cooperation
of the surface Task Force units; so in that sense, I evaluate surface Task Forces very highly,
especially where the landing is to be made beyond the range of land-based air units.
So we felt that if we could deal a serious blow to your surface Task Force, that would widen
the gap between your landing attempts and also shorten the distance between the stepping stones
by which you made the advance toward JAPAN.

Q. In considering JAPAN's inability to stabilize and hold the perimeter which had been
almost achieved in the first six months of the war, what factors would you say were accountable?
That is, was it a lack of bases of sufficient size to build up necessary strength or was it
inability to supply the bases? Was it a logistics problem, in other words?
A. I think there was a mistake at the top from the very beginning as to the nature of
modern warfare. It a little closer study had been made of the Second World War as it started
in EUROPE, especially in the fighting going on between ENGLAND and GERMANY around the MEDITERRANEAN,
the fighting that meant so much consumption of material, and if we had laid our plans from
the beginning with some sounder ideas as to the nature of modern war in mind, it might have
been different. We had at the beginning only 6,000,000 tons of ship bottom, and once the war
started, the plan adopted wax to build a million tons annually. That was a puny figure as
compared to the amount actually needed, and the same applied as to the other consumption
materials, armaments, etc.; entirely too small a scale.

Q. Would you say then that the plan executed by JAPAN was in excess of her capability?
A. As already stated, even the plans that were laid could not be carried out; but the plans
to begin with, I think were not accordance with the need of the war.

Q. How did the Japanese Navy expect to end the war? What were its specific expectations
concerning the end of the war?
A. I can hardly make a clear statement as to what the Navy expected at the beginning of the war,
as I was not in a position where I could acquire such information.

Q. Did you participate in any Imperial Conferences concerning the termination of the war?
A. Yes, after May of this year when I took over as head of the Naval General Staff,
I attended Imperial meetings to the end of the war.
--318--