Q. Did you feel that these air attacks, these fire attacks, were contributing in any degree
toward the disruption of the remaining military resources?
A. Until this year our main loss in shipping was due to submarine activities;
but, especially beginning around April and May of this year, your air raids were the
principal cause of our shipping losses.

Q. We know that shipping had become interdicted rather effectively, leaving JAPAN with
only the military resources on the homeland with which to conduct her further military
operations. What effect was the air attacks, the fire attacks, on the homeland having on
the remaining military resources that you had on the homeland proper with which, if you
had continued war, you had intended to continue war? How much effect did those operations
have on further depleting your resources for continuing war?
A. I cannot give even approximate figures as to the extent of damage done to material
in JAPAN proper, but I believe that greater than the effect on the destruction of materials
themselves was the destruction of our production equipment by air raids.

Q. Production capacity?
A. Yes, production capacity.

Q. How did you feel that it affected the will of the people to continue to fight?
In other words, what effect did these air attacks, these fire attacks, have on the will of
the nation to continue war? Did it tend to deteriorate? If so, to what degree?
A. The effect on the people's morale was not as great as we had feared. In other words,
while people who lost their homes faced extremely difficult times, it did not develop to
the point of wanting to give up the war. To be sure, it had an effect on production because
it cut off transportation, and in some cases, no doubt, some factory hands stayed away from
factories because of the danger of bombing. That affected production to some extent,
but affecting the people's will to fight was not as great as we had feared.

Q. In these conferences leading to the consideration of surrender, what value was put on
the air assaults on JAPAN proper? How did they evaluate that when they were considering
the matter of terminating war?
A. I do not believe that the question of air raids came up in the minds of the members
as an independent question at all; that is there was no idea that we must give up the war
to avoid even a single additional day of bombing.
--323--
The main consideration that led to the decision to cease hostilities was, after all,
the overall weakening of the Nation's production capacity, loss of material, etc.
I refer to the statement already made regarding the effect on morale and point out that
outside of bombed areas, especially in the country, people appeared to be almost wholly
unconcerned about bombing as was evidenced by their failure to dig air raid shelters, etc.;
so that, taking the country as a whole, the effect on morale was very light.

Q. Was there any attempt at this time to put a value on the cumulative effect of
sustained bombing of this nature had it been permitted to continue on for many months,
the cumulative effect that such sustained operations would have on JAPAN proper, her capacity
to wage war, or to survive?
A. The point that worried me most was the effect of continued bombing on aircraft production.
Whereas the year before we were producing over 1,000 naval aircraft alone monthly,
in July of this year that production had fallen to around 600, less than half of the previous
year; and so far as I could see we were just about nearing the end of our aviation fuel supply,
and I could not see how we could possibly procure sufficient aviation fuel after September;
and since those two facts, namely, fall in aircraft production and shortage in aviation fuel,
were largely due to your air raids, we would naturally reach the conclusion that, if the air raids
were to continue for months after that, it would become impossible for us to continue the war.

Q. I want to get from you the naval estimate of their capabilities prior to the opening
of the war; that is, the Japanese Navy's capabilities in terms of American capabilities.
A. As a result of the WASHINGTON-LONDON Naval DIsarmament Treaties, Japanese Naval strength
had been restricted to around 60% of UNITED STATES strength. After those treaties were
abdicted it was, of course, no longer incumbent upon us to maintain that ratio, so we
devoted our efforts to the building up of the Navy, quantitatively and qualitatively so that
in no case would our relative strength fall below 60% of yours. I do not remember by figures
what the relative strength of our Navy was categorically. When we faced the necessity of taking
on both the UNITED STATES and ENGLAND in this war, the question of our relative strength
with the UNITED STATES became relatively a small question. Never in the history of our Navy
were plans ever drafted which envisaged a war with GREAT BRITAIN and the UNITED STATES as
allied enemies. Consequently it may safely be said that this was not a war in which the
Japanese Navy laid down plans which had even a fair chance of success.

Q. After this war became inevitable, after the decision was reached to conduct this war,
what generally was the naval war plan for opposing the enemy Navies, American and British?
How did you intend to cope with this opposing naval power?
A. As I stated yesterday, I was not in Central Headquarters at the time so that I am not in
a position to say what were the plans with regard to equipment and operations against
the American and British Navies, but my guess in that since the decision had been made
they had to get up and fight with what we had on our hands.

Q. I was wondering if you were informed on the broad general war plans under which they
proposed to conduct operations against the opposing Allied naval forces?
A. I wonder whether the emphasis on the Navy was not placed upon surprise attack.

Q. That carries to another question I'd like to ask and that is: In the planned attack on
PEARL HARBOR, which apparently was to attack a concentrated target, did the Japanese Navy
have any alternate plan for such a surprise attack in the event that there was not such a
concentration of force? If the force had been out in the open, was there another plan to
be implemented in case this concentrated target was not found?
A. I have not heard of any such plan. If such a force had not been found in PEARL HARBOR,
the surprise attack would have been a big gamble.

Q. (Captain Hedding) I assume that in preparing for war in the Japanese Navy,
as well as we did in the American Navy, you laid certain basic plans for eventualities.
Did you know of those basic plans or are you now fairly familiar with what those plans were
prior to the war?
A. Yes. Every naval plan made is submitted to the Emperor for his approval, but I do not
believe that those plans are made known very widely even in the Navy, and I doubt whether they
are made known even to the Naval Station authorities.

Q. But you were familiar with, more or less, the general planning?
A. No.

Q. Captain OHMAE has outlined from either
records or from personal knowledge a basic plan for this war which went about as follows:
To obtain certain areas in the south and to establish a perimeter to protect these resource areas,
the perimeter being roughly from the KURILES, the MARSHALLS, the BISMARCK ARCHIPELAGO and south
of SUMATRA, MALAY, BURMA. Do you feel that the naval resources were sufficient to carry out
this broad plan?
--324--
A. I believe that this was one of numerous plans which was too big to be carried out
by the resources at our command. Even with the forces which we had to start with, the
carrying out of this plan would have been difficult, much more so later when you consider
that naval force after all, is consumption goods. As war progresses we suffer losses, and
sufficient measures had not been taken, could not be taken in view of shortage of material
and manpower, to continually replenish those losses. I felt at the outset that we had
over-extended our line when we took in the ALEUTIANS and MIDWAY. I always felt that the line
should be made compact and to concentrate the forces that we did have in a relatively narrow area.
Because of the necessity of obtaining resources from the south, it was of course inevitable
that our lines should be extended as far as JAVA and SUMATRA but not beyond that, down south.
It would have been wiser had we kept ourselves to Central PACIFIC, not going further east
than TRUK. That is not to say that I would have favored giving up the MARSHALLS to being with,
but I would have put in there only sufficient force so as to have delayed your offensive
from that region a sufficiently long time to enable us to strengthen the inner line.