Q. We had heard opinions expressed by some of the senior Japanese naval officers that,
prior to the war, they felt that the Japanese navy could only operate successfully for perhaps
a year or perhaps a year and a half. Would you affirm or deny that opinion?
A. I believe that such was the feeling among high officers, although I know of no changes or
expressions of opinion to that effect; each man kept it to himself. I have heard, not directly
but through a third person, that Admiral YAMAMOTO expressed as his opinion that "we can carry
through for one year some way, but after that I don't know."

Q. Do you think similarly now?
A. Yes, I more or less shared the view that while we might do well enough in the early part
of the war for a year or so, after that it would become extremely difficult.
It so happened that for two years prior to the beginning of the war I was Chief of the
Naval Technical Department at Kenzai Hombu and there was in a position of responsibility
regarding the Navy's equipment and ships, and I noticed that there was not always unanimity
of opinion regarding the types to be constructed, regarding specifications of ships,
difficulty in material. The principal cause of our difficulty in material was our shortage
in steel. Our annual supply was about 6,000,000 tons which, as compared with anywhere
from 80,000,000 to 100,000,000 tons annually for your country, was an almost negligible
quantity, and the difference in our fuel supply wsa even greater. Our fuel supply was
almost out of the question as compared with yours, we being able to produce only around
10% of our annual needs.
Going back to shipbuilding, the difference in opinion regarding categories and specifications
arose from the fact that under the WASHINGTON and LONDON treaties we were subject to
quantitative limitations. Emphasis had been laid upon quantity so that during the time that
I was head of the Naval Technical Department although we were then no longer under treaty
restrictions as to tonnage, the same idea of improving quality remained in the minds of our
shipbuilding experts, and we used to receive orders from different sections of the Navy for
ships of higher efficiency. I felt at the time that now that we were no longer held down
by a quantitative ceiling, we should redirect our attention from quality back to quantity and
to increase the number of ships, because we could see from experiences of the Second European
War, which had already started, that one could not expect to keep ships safely for any
length of time. In other words, ships were consumption goods and would have to be
replaced rapidly to maintain a standard of strength.

Q. You stated that one of the lessons learned at MIDWAY by the Japanese Navy
was that too much emphasis had been placed on the organization of the fleet, which organization
gave too much emphasis on battleships, and that as a result of the MIDWAY battle
a reorganization was made to place increasing emphasis on carriers as the major
effective weapon of a fleet. Would you give your opinion as to the correctness of such statement?
A. Yes, that is true, and the reason for the battleship having held the center of the picture
prior to that was the fact that we had the idea there would be important naval engagements,
fleet against fleet. But as a result of the MIDWAY engagement, we learned the lesson that
battleships as such were not effective weapons unless they had sufficient air support.
A similar lesson was learned with regard to destroyers and submarines and methods
of construction of those two types were varied after that.

Q. (General Anderson) In the overall plans for the conduct of this war, what were
the basic concepts of the Japanese Navy in the coordinated use, as it expanded its perimeter,
of land-based aviation to further support and work with mobile surface forces? Was there
a plan in this extension of the perimeter to coordinate land-based aviation with floating aviation
to increase its effectiveness to defend this perimeter, and did plans envisage coordinating
land-based aviation in direct supporting cooperation with fleet Task Forces?
A. Two important naval engagements took place while I was in command of the Combined Fleet
in which the whole of the Navy's carrier-based planes were thrown in; and while orders had
been that there should be closest cooperation between headquarters land-based air force and
carrier-based planes, that cooperation could not be effectively
--325--
carried out owing to the fact that the carrier-based air force was too weak, both in quantity
and in quality. We didn't have enough carrier-based planes and the pilots were not highly
trained; consequently, cooperation never went well.

Q. What I would like to develop and explore is the Japanese naval concept on the matter
of utilizing land-based aviation and working under a canopy of land-based aviation, to increase
the capabilities of the naval forces in their operations working within the ranges and
the supporting distances of land-based aviation, thereby gaining an increased strength
to combat forces coming from the east, from AMERICA, setting up this perimeter of defense?
A. Yes, such an idea was no doubt in the minds of naval authorities, but failure to utilize
land-based air forces effectively was attributable principally to weakness of the land-based
air forces, and as I stated yesterday the weakness of cooperation between the land-based
air forces and carrier-based air forces was the poor communication between the two.
Operations in which the two were to cooperate had to be carried out by liaison between the
respective headquarters. Our communication system had not developed to a point where there
could be communication between the forces at lower levels.
As an idea, of course, we wanted to draw your surface units within range of our land-based
planes, but we always had difficulty in bringing that about; and the reason, as already stated,
was that we didn't have enough aircraft and pilots were not sufficiently trained. By way of
an example, at the MARIANAS, the First Air Fleet was taken down there, stationed at TINIAN
Island in preparation for the coming engagement. It had been trained in JAPAN and rushed
down there in a hurry, and just got there when MARIANAS Operation started.

Q. Yesterday I understood you to say in answer to a question that you considered surface forces
constituted the greatest threat to the Japanese Navy. What do you consider was the most
effective weapon that was employed against the Japanese Navy in this war? I'll probably have
to clarify that by stating, between surface fire and air fire.
A. By what weapon?

Q. The air weapon or the sea weapon in its effectiveness against the Japanese Navy in attrition.
A. I think that I would have to divide the war into two periods in answering the question.
The first half of the war I believe the submarine constituted the most effective weapon.

Q. Against the Japanese Navy?
A. Yes; and the latter half of the war that your air force was the most effective weapon.

Q. I want to ask just one other question. In this operation against MIDWAY which I understand
was considered as a very decisive one, changing the capabilities of the Japanese Navy,
what was the objective of that operation against MIDWAY? Why, strategically, was that operation
launched?
A. I don't know what it was and I can't understand what might have been the object of that.
That is the reason I pronounce that an utter failure. I think that, this is just a guess on
my part, the MIDWAY Operation was undertaken as one step in the tendency which arose as a result
of the outstanding success of the first operations, to extend this scope of activity in all
directions, HAWAII on the east and as far west as CEYLON in the INDIAN OCEAN.
If I may be permitted another guess, I think the decision to expand the area of operations
so widely might be attributed to a feeing on the part of the Japanese authorities at the time
that the state of mind under which you fought the war and the state of mind under which we
fought the war were very different, in that to us this was the war for our very national existence,
whereas in your case it was merely a case of national honor or perhaps protection of your
economic interests in the Far East; and, because to you the war under such conditions would be
of relatively slight significance as compared with ours, there might have been a feeling
on the part of our leaders that, should the war continue a little longer, you would lose your
will to fight, and with that idea we might have continued spreading the battle line.