Q. Did this general situation continue for a considerable period? Did it continue after the
MARSHALLS Operation, after SAIPAN, after the PHILIPPINES: or was there a change in the relative
importance of the threat--that is, of the U.S. Navy threat? Did that at some time become
less important?
A. Yes, taking the whole period of the war, my feeling is that the American surface forces
were our principal threat. That is not to overlook the effect of the U.S. Air Force, but even that
was made effective only through the cooperation of the American Naval Task Force. So while there
might have been exceptions locally in isolated spots, taking the whole area of the PACIFIC,
I think that the U.S. surface forces constituted our main threat. Toward the end of the war,
particularly after the loss of the PHILIPPINES, it became more or less clear that we could
not successfully use our naval forces against the American naval forces; so that, especially
just prior to the conclusion of the war, we decided that the only way to combat the American
Fleet was by what we termed "bleeding" operations, should American forces endeavor to make a
landing either on JAPAN proper--HONSHU--or on some nearby island.

Q. In following the progress of the war as you saw it, what would you say, in just a few words
if it can so be done, were the chief causes for the inability of JAPAN to carry out her war aims?
A. On the material side, the fact that our country was woefully weak, lacking resources.
On the spiritual side, I should say that the biggest hindrance was the fact that people were
not told what this war was actually for, and for that reason they were not able to really put
themselves into the war effort.

Q. From the standpoint of the UNITED STATES, what was the principal force you might say that
resulted in Japan's inability to carry out her war aims?
A. On the American side I should say that it was the fact that you had adequate raw materials,
bountiful resources, and tremendous production capacity, and the fact that production plans
were carried out very much according to schedule. I recall that when I left TOKYO to take over
command of the Combined Fleet I made one request of the Navy Minister, and that was the fact
that he should promise that all the ships, all the planes, and other supplies which were
promised to the Combined Fleet under the Naval Plan should be carried out to the letter;
that if he felt that it was impossible to go through with the number designated in the plan,
to change the plan. For instance, if he thought it was going to be difficult to let the
Combined Fleet have ten planes, don't pout ten planes down but reduce that to five, but be sure
to come through with the five planes. But as it turned out, the Navy Minister was not able
to carry out that promise, not because of lack of will to do so but because production
simply did not keep up with the plan.

Q. Then to go a little further along the same line, lack of production has many causes.
What would you ascribe the principle reason for the lack of that production?
A. It is difficult to point to any one thing as the reason for failure in production because
there are many and each, I think operates to affect the others in more or less of a vicious
circle, but if I have to name one, I would point out lack of raw materials and natural resources.
It was, of course, impossible to supply our production plants with raw materials from JAPAN
proper, CHINA and MANCHURIA. That was evident from the first, and it was for that reason that
our Army and Navy extended their insufficient force over such a broad area, along battle lines
all out of proportion to our strength in men, in order to obtain raw materials from the south,
but as it turned out, that was simply taking in too much territory with the strength that
we had in that area.

Q. What was the principal reason why you couldn't get those raw materials to your country
from the south?
A. The main reason, I think was that we did not have a sufficient number of ships to begin with,
and such as we had, we suffered heavy damage owing to your submarines and air action.

Q. As major items in the position that you came to, what would you say were the primary causes?
Was it the loss of shipping, was it the severe damage to the fleet strength, was it loss of
air power, was it blockade by air and submarines, or was it bombing of the homeland?
A. Beginning this year, I think the biggest cause of fall in production, especially in aircraft
and air material, was the effect of your bombing on the domestic plants--factories--in JAPAN
proper; but as regards the effects on our war strength on the whole, I think the greatest effect
was felt after all by the lack of ships and consequent inability to bring material from the south.
Along that line also there were periods in the war when there was not a lack of material
in JAPAN, but they could not be moved from one place to another owing to lack of transportation
facilities. In other words, various causes affected one another to bring down the general fall
in production level.
--315--

Q. Now, considering all factors--the lack of production and the condition of the fleet and
your position with respect to air strength--at what point in the war did you realize the
probability that the war could not be successfully continued? Is there some one point, some action,
some operation?
A. I felt it was difficult from the very beginning, but I think what might be termed the turning
point was the Battle of MIDWAY. Our losses there had a very serious effect upon us, together with
the fact that we used very much fuel at that time, more than we had expected would be necessary;
and the effect of that was felt right through afterwards. When I came to Central Headquarters
as Chief of the Naval Staff this year and was informed of the situation prevailing then
with regard to aircraft, aviation fuel, heavy oil for surface units, I realized more than
ever, then, that continuation of the war under such conditions was extremely difficult.
I believe the turning point, in so far as the fuel situation was concerned--that is, the period
after which our fuel situation became extremely acute--was our loss of the PHILIPPINES
to your forces, because after that you had control of air and sea over South CHINA and
completely cut off our shipping lanes to the south.

Q. What was the first time when the movements of the fleet were definitely restricted
by lack of fuel?
A. The fleet fuel situation became very acute early in this year. Our surface units were
restricted even as to their training activities, and any large-scale operation requiring
heavy supplies of fuel became almost out of the question. On 7-8 April of this year when
the battleship YAMATO was sent with a dozen or more destroyers into OKINAWA, we questioned
whether there was a 50-50 chance. Even in getting that squadron together we had a very
difficult time getting the necessary 2,500 tons of fuel oil together. But it was felt that,
even if there was not a 50-50 chance, nothing was to be gained by letting those ships lie idle
in home waters, and besides it would have been contrary to the tradition of the Japanese Navy
not to have sent them, even though we could not clearly perceive they had a 50-50 chance
of success. That is how acute the fuel situation was in the early part of this year.

Q. What was the situation, let's say, one year preceding that? Were you free to move
your fleet about?
A. No, I would not say that we had adequate fuel supplies a year before. I took over the Combined
Fleet in May of the preceding year. At that time, however, we had access to the oil in BORNEO
and SUMATRA. We were able to obtain supplies directly from the south; so while the stock
of oil was almost sufficient for purposes of a fleet, the difficulty was in tankers. I had asked
for and obtained approximately 80,000 tons of tankers for fleet use, but we began to suffer
damages through submarine operations; and by the time of the SAIPAN operation, the greatest
hindrance to the drafting of the operation plans was the fact that we did not have sufficient
tankers to support it.

Q. Again with regard to the SAIPAN or the MARIANAS Operations, did the original A-GO Plan
contemplate the use of the fleet in defense of the MARIANAS?
A. Yes, use of the fleet was included in those plans from the beginning. But while the
possibility of your offensive against the MARIANAS was not ignored or belittled, we thought
the probability would be that your attack would be directed more against PALAU, and that was
the reason for our adoption of the A-GO Operation Plan, which was more to our advantage
because of the shorter distance involved and would eliminate the need of tankers to some
extent, which was, as already stated, our greatest handicap.